The first time Shaquem Griffin was held out of a football game, he was 8 years old. Football was for people with two hands, an opposing coach told him, and his left hand had been amputated four years earlier as the result of a painful prenatal condition. “That was the moment I realized I was always going to have to prove people wrong,” Griffin wrote on the Players’ Tribune. Griffin, the Central Florida linebacker, has done that and more, vanquishing even more doubters Saturday and Sunday with attention-getting performances that led him to become the best story of this year’s NFL combine. On Saturday, he bench pressed 225 pounds 20 times with the use of his right hand and a prosthetic device on his left wrist. That was a performance that was only four reps off the pace of the combine’s leader, West Virginia wide receiver Ka’Ruan White. On Sunday, he followed up with a blazing, official time of 4.38 seconds in his first attempt at the 40 and a 4.58 in his second. How good was that? Well, it appears to be the fastest 40 by a linebacker since 2003.  Everyone, from J.J. Watt to Ryan Shazier to his brother noticed.   His twin brother, Seahawks cornerback Shaquill Griffin, ran a 4.38 a year ago and reminded the NFL Network. (Yes, Shaquill was a bit faster …)  Everyone was talking about Shaquem and his road to the combine, a road that began with surgery when he was 4. That’s when doctors decided to amputate his left arm the day after his mother found him trying to cut off his fingers with a kitchen knife. It was the only way he could think of to cope with the searing pain he suffered because an amniotic membrane that had wrapped around Shaquem’s hand while his mother, Tangie, was pregnant. “It’s a thin tissue you can barely see,” Tangie told the Los Angeles Times. “The doctor answered the questions and explained the options. It could be taken off with a needle, but even the slightest move could have punctured [either of the twins during pregnancy] and it was possible one wouldn’t survive. I was not going to take that chance.” So Shaquem experienced serious pain whenever his fingers were touched or pressured. The night he tried self-surgery, he had hit his hand against the side of the bunk beds he shared with Shaquill, who is older by a minute. The day after surgery, he was playing football again, with his “bandage just dripping blood.” “I didn’t care, I was going to play football regardless,” he said. “It was tough until I had my fingers removed, but after that I knew I was going to play again. The pain was gone. … It didn’t hurt when the ball hit.”   Scouts had graded Griffin a 5.40 out of 10 heading into the combine, a mark that means they think he could join his brother in the NFL, as a backup or special teams player. Deion Sanders was sold. “You are straight balling, man!” he tweeted to Griffin. “You gon mess around and get the call. LOL ‘If you ball u get the call.’”  Read more on the NFL: As NFL debate rages about his position, Lamar Jackson says ‘I’m strictly a QB’ Baker Mayfield, bursting with confidence, is ready to play the role of the savior sports  early-lead Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. Running backs are coveted once more and Saquon Barkley’s stock is soaring At long last, we’re at the ‘no doubt’ stage of Andrew Luck’s recovery