At the end of a week when the loudest government of my lifetime reached earsplitting decibel levels, capped off by a freak nor’easter, Ethel came to town. The indie-classical quartet arrived Sunday afternoon at the National Gallery of Art with a program titled “Blue Dress.” It wasn’t a moment too soon. Founded in New York in 1998, Ethel, whose members are violist Ralph Farris, cellist Dorothy Lawson and violinists Kip Jones and Corin Lee, was a breath of fresh air. A program anchored by works by Julia Wolfe, Missy Mazzoli and Anna Clyne was interspersed with compositions and arrangements by the quartet members. Wolfe’s “Blue Dress for String Quartet” drew on bluegrass fiddling to create a deeply moving musical journey, requiring the players to intone nonverbal pitches almost from the beginning and, during the course of 17 minutes, eventually coalesced into the spoken lyric, “Pretty little girl with a blue dress on, stole my heart and away she gone.” Two compelling pieces by Lawson — “Chai” and “Grandmother,” the latter a result of Ethel’s long-term involvement with Native American music — prefaced Mazzoli’s richly evocative “Quartet for Queen Mab.” Drawing on the famous speech in “Romeo and Juliet,” “Mab” wove dense but translucent textures into a vivid portrait of the fairy who brings dreams to humans. Arrangements by Ethel’s two violinists provided the bridge to the program’s final segment. Lee based “The Music There” on music by Stevie Nicks, while Jones fashioned Aretha Franklin’s “Respect” and “A Natural Woman” into the equivalent of a 21st-century Liszt operatic fantasy for string quartet. Clyne’s “Roulette” was the most ambitious item on the program, with its use of a recorded tape track in coordination with the live quartet to create a texturally complex soundscape. Farris’s “Sweet Janis,” based on songs of Janis Joplin, was in many ways the most accomplished of the afternoon’s superb series of idiomatic and compelling transcriptions, inspiring an instant standing ovation. Ethel’s distinction derives from a thoroughgoing virtuosity, a strong group identity that nevertheless encourages individuality, and the warmly inclusive embrace of their audience. In the hands of Ethel, American music is alive and well. style@washpost.com