Major league baseball kicked off the 2018 season on Thursday and it did not disappoint. Twenty-nine players hit home runs and three of those — Matt Davidson and Tim Anderson of the Chicago White Sox and New York Yankees slugger Giancarlo Stanton — ended the day with multiple homers. The 33 home runs hit on Opening Day is the most since 2006, the first year baseball instituted league-wide drug testing. Davidson hit three home runs against the Kansas City Royals, tying a major league record for most home runs by a player in his team’s first game of a season. The continuing home run surge is a byproduct of baseball’s reliance on analytics — more and more players are adjusting their swing planes to increase their launch angles, aiming to hit more line drives and fly balls than ground balls that easily become outs. In addition to how a player approaches his at-bat, analytics are shaping when those at-bats occur, too. [ The Yankees and Orioles are primed to break team home run record in 2018 ] New York Mets Manager Mickey Callaway used an unconventional lineup against the St. Louis Cardinals on Thursday, batting pitcher Noah Syndergaard eighth and 22-year-old shortstop Ahmed Rosario ninth, and it worked. Rosario went 2 for 4 with two RBI and was on base for Yoenis Cespedes’ two-run single. In their book, “The Book,” Tom Tango, Mitchel Lichtman and Andy Dolphin found that hitting the pitcher eighth was worth about two runs per season. That’s not enough to change the tide of a season-long division race, but teams are always looking for an edge, and this one comes at no extra monetary cost. The New York Yankees, meanwhile, took another page out of “The Book” and put their two best hitters, 2017 AL rookie of the year Aaron Judge, Stanton, the reigning NL MVP at the top of the order. The benefit of this strategy is increased plate appearances for the team’s top hitters. For example, the leadoff batter gets an average of 4.2 plate appearances per game, whereas the cleanup hitter averages just 3.7. Over the course of a 162-game season, that equates to 77 more chances at the plate. For a player like Stanton, who averages a home run 6 percent of the time, that could mean 4 to 5 more home runs in a season. Improved efficiency on offense wasn’t the only spectacle on display. Now that major league clubs have tons of data on batter tendencies, more and more managers are employing the infield shift — a defensive realignment that positions infielders on one side of the diamond in an effort to prevent extra-base hits. In 2010, the first year shift data is available, 3,323 plate appearances had to deal with a shift. In 2017 that number was nearly ten times as large (33,218). The 2017 World Series champion Houston Astros took it one step further and utilized a four-man outfield against Texas Ranger Joey Gallo. Gallo, a pull hitter 52 percent of the time, hit directly into the shift in three of his four plate appearances. In the first inning, he hit a flyball to a redeployed Alex Bregman in left field. In the fourth, he hit a flyball to Josh Reddick in left-center field. In the eighth, Gallo hit a flyball to right field. He finished the game 0 for 4 with a strikeout. These are only a few examples of how baseball is taking advantage of analytics, but as more and more teams use the data in creative and meaningful ways, their success will cause other teams to follow suit. Correction: A previous version incorrectly listed Gregory Bird in the lineup. Read more MLB: The Mets and Blue Jays are expected to improve in 2018. The Dodgers are not. The only drama of the 2018 MLB season will be in the AL East and wild-card races Bryce Harper is about to step into the storm that’s been brewing his entire life ‘More than a ballplayer’: After MLK shooting, Roberto Clemente halted MLB Opening Day 1968 Foul! Dodgers-Angels spring training game ended by stinky sewage leak.