The eaglet has landed. The first of bald eagles Liberty and Justice’s two eggs hatched Saturday morning in an oak tree above the D.C. police academy in Southwest Washington. The hatchling delighted avid eagle cam watchers, who witnessed the tiny tuft of gray wriggle free from its shell. “Welcome to the world, ECC3! Happy hatch-day!” the Earth Conservation Corps posted on Facebook. The group runs the camera that lives streams video from the eagles’ nest. A naming contest for the baby eagle is forthcoming, the group said. At least one person on social media already had a suggestion, tied to its St. Patrick’s Day hatching: “Congrats! Welcome to the world, Lucky!” Taylor Plunkett wrote in a post, adding shamrock, eagle and green heart emoji. Liberty and Justice have been nesting above the police academy for 11 years, according to Earth Conservation Corps. Liberty cares for the chicks once they hatch, while Justice must catch fish and deliver food for the family. The eaglet began to peck through its shell Friday morning, creating what is known as a “pip.” The second egg has yet to show a pip, and it’s unclear when, or if, its hatching will occur. Last year, Liberty also laid two eggs, but one did not hatch. “This might be our only eaglets in the District this year,” said Dan Rauch, a wildlife biologist in the District. “You’re always afraid something’s going to happen, and now that you’ve started to have eagles in the District again, it would be sad to miss a year.” At another nest, across town at the National Arboretum, eagle observers are waiting for those occupants, Mr. President and The First Lady, to even lay an egg. [The First Lady still has not laid an egg, and Mr. President is still tweeting about it] Those eagles seem to be fine, Rauch said, with both flying around, but they’ve yet to lay an egg. “Everything else is there,” he said. Laying an egg “is the last step.” It’s unclear why The First Lady hasn’t yet laid an egg, but if she doesn’t this year, the couple may split and look for new mates. Or “this could be a blip, and they’re back next year” with an egg, Rauch said. “Nature is never simple.”