Donald Trump has a serious problem with his hired help. Simply put, he never had a ton of competent staff. He has also managed to force out many of those who displayed any kind of competence. To understand the conundrum the president faces going forward, consider the following stories from this week. First, from Politico’s Daren Samuelsohn, is why Rick Gates’s plea deal might be so damaging to the Trump administration. Samuelson addresses a puzzling question: How did Gates survive in the Trump orbit when Paul Manafort was forced out? Second, from Maggie Haberman of the New York Times, is how Trump misses his staff secretary Rob Porter: President Trump has stayed in touch with Rob Porter, the former White House staff secretary who stepped down after allegations that he had abused his two former wives came to light, according to three people familiar with the conversations, and has told some advisers he hopes Mr. Porter returns to work in the West Wing. The president’s calls with Mr. Porter have increased in the last few weeks, as the number of people he is close to in the White House has dwindled because of the large number of staff departures, the people familiar with the calls said. The president has told the advisers he has talked with that he knows he probably cannot bring Mr. Porter back. But he has made clear that he misses the staff structure that Mr. Porter had helped build and implement, a White House official said, speaking on background because advisers were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. Mr. Porter also served as a de facto deputy chief of staff for policy, playing a key role on issues like tariffs, and Mr. Trump spent as much as two hours a day with him. Finally, from The Washington Post’s Carol Leonnig and Rosalind Helderman, Trump cannot buy himself a decent lawyer: A prominent Chicago defense attorney said Monday that he had declined an invitation to lead President Trump’s legal team responding to special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, underscoring the president’s difficulty in attracting top legal talent to represent him in the probe. … With a reputation for failing to pay lawyers or follow their legal advice, Trump has struggled to find another top-notch lawyer to take his case. This is a natural extension of Trump’s beclowning of the executive branch and toddler-like management of the White House. In an organization with a toxic atmosphere, anyone who demonstrates any mixture of survival skills and competence will be highly valued. Gates, despite the red warning lights about his illegal operations, was kept on the campaign staff. Porter, despite the red warning lights about his abuse of women, was kept on the White House staff. John Bolton was just hired despite the many, many red warning lights about his foreign policy views. These were not and are not first-best or even second-best options. They’re the choice of an administration that cannot find anyone competent to work for it beyond those exiled on the Island of Misfit Wonks. Trump has been looking for a few good men for quite some time now. His own management style, however, precludes that possibility.