MOON, Pa. The surprisingly close special election to fill a vacant House seat in this Pittsburgh-area district is shaping up to be a test of whether organized labor can regain its relevance — in electoral politics, and with its own declining membership. Unions have gone all-in for charismatic Democratic newcomer Conor Lamb, a 33-year-old former Marine officer and federal prosecutor, who has been running roughly even in the polls. Pennsylvania’s 18th District has not been held by a Democrat since 2002 and went for Donald Trump by nearly 20 points in 2016. opinions   Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false   Please provide a valid email address. “The unions were the first ones to believe in me,” Lamb says. “Most of my initial fundraising was from the unions.” The district’s previous congressman, Tim Murphy, who resigned in October amid an adultery scandal, was one of the rare Republicans on the Hill on cordial terms with labor. Democrats did not even bother to run anyone against him in 2014 and 2016. In next Tuesday’s election , however, the unions have found their ultimate bogeyman in four-term state legislator Rick Saccone, 60 , who has opposed them on just about every big question. He has supported right-to-work legislation that would allow workers to opt out of paying fees to unions that bargain on their behalf in the workplace and opposed requirements that public infrastructure projects be built by union labor. Panicked Republican strategists say privately that Saccone has been a disaster as a candidate, holding few public events and exhibiting a brusque manner that women in particular find off-putting. To make up for Saccone’s deficiencies, Republicans are trying to bury Lamb with outside money. One super PAC alone — the Congressional Leadership Fund, which is affiliated with House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) — has spent $3.5 million, and put 50 full-time staffers on the ground. The battle is taking place not only in a superheated midterm election environment but also at a moment of existential significance for the labor movement. Across the state line in West Virginia, striking teachers just won a spectacular victory by gaining a 5  percent pay raise for all state employees. But public-employee unions are also bracing for what could be a crippling blow from the Supreme Court, if the justices decide in Janus v. AFSCME that workers should not be required to pay an “agency fee” to unions of which they are not members. Nearly 90,000 people in this district live in union households. Nationally, union membership hovers around 11 percent of the workforce, about half of what it was in the 1980s. And Trump, who channels their economic grievances and social conservatism, has loosened the Democrats’ hold on union members’ political allegiances. Across Pennsylvania, Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton won only 55 percent of labor’s vote — down from 78 percent for Barack Obama in 2012 , and more than enough to be the difference in a state where she lost by less than a percentage point . The problem was not just Clinton’s weaknesses as a candidate, but a flaw in her strategy. It assumed that union voters would be there for her at the polls. So the campaign — and labor’s national leadership — focused on demonizing Trump, registering voters and pressing social issues that resonated with other demographic groups, said Richard W. Bloomingdale, president of the Pennsylvania AFL-CIO. That ceded a lot of union-friendly ground to Trump and his promises to restrict immigration, to bring back jobs in coal mining and other industries, and to protect gun ownership. So now, “we’re doing what we used to do — which we didn’t do in 2016 — and that is talking to our members,” Bloomingdale said. “What people need to understand is we’ve got to talk about jobs. Where we have credibility, it’s on the pocketbook issues.” Those who are closest to the ground say that this back-to-basics approach is paying off. Ron Demechilli, a retired member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, figures he has knocked on the doors of at least 600 union households on Lamb’s behalf. He says he has found no support for Saccone, and only three or four where people told him they are still undecided. Trump — whose poll numbers in Pennsylvania are a few points higher than they are nationally — will be back in the district Saturday for a rally with Saccone at the Pittsburgh airport. The president’s proposal to slap tariffs on steel and aluminum imports has significant support from labor, and both Saccone and Lamb have expressed qualified support for it. For his part, Lamb has brought in former vice president and “kid from Scranton” Joe Biden, known among Democrats here as Pennsylvania’s third senator and a familiar figure at Pittsburgh’s annual Labor Day parade. The results of all of this effort, to be revealed Tuesday night, will be an indication of the political path ahead for organized labor — if it has one at all. Read more on this issue: George F. Will: Could a Democrat be the best of both worlds in red-state America? Jennifer Rubin: Here’s how we know Joe Biden is serious about 2020 Paul Waldman: Stop wringing your hands about the battles among Democrats Marc A. Thiessen: Time to protect public workers from unions’ coercion