Where does your college basketball team stand as Selection Sunday draws closer? We’ll break down the winners and losers from all the conference tournament action, with an eye on how the results will affect the NCAA tournament bracket. Check back for updates. Where, exactly, are the Cowboys at? The Second Most Interesting Team in the Country made a run at top honors when it built a 10-point lead in the first half against Kansas. Oklahoma State taking three from the Jayhawks would have helped the Cowboys’ stealth campaign at an out-of-nowhere at-large bid. Instead, Kansas gathered itself and earned an 82-68 victory, leaving the Cowboys (19-14) with quite a set of victories and virtually no help from any metrics to boost their cause. Oklahoma State beat Kansas twice and both Texas Tech and West Virginia once. It was also dominated by the Big 12’s midpack, going a combined 0-6 against Baylor, Kansas State and Texas Christian. But at their best, the Cowboys were awfully dangerous. Oklahoma State also entered the day ranked No. 85 in the RPI, a metric that isn’t (and shouldn’t be) the final arbiter for selection. It is a sorting tool, and it does have importance. But there’s never been an at-large selection with an RPI in the 80s, a stat Oklahoma State is unlikely to change. Providence does the best it can. There was no fixing the biggest gap in Providence’s postseason resume: The lack of a high-end true road victory. The Friars probably did the next best thing by knocking off Creighton, 72-68, in the Big East quarterfinals. In a sense, there was some good fortune at play for Providence (20-12). In need of a victory to improve its NCAA tournament hopes, it could’ve faced long odds Thursday by drawing an imposing heavyweight, or faced a poor opponent that would do little to improve its postseason standing. Instead, they played the Bluejays, a solid NCAA tournament candidate but certainly a beatable one. The Friars’ big problem is their three ugly losses. They fell at Massachusetts, and also lost home games to Minnesota and DePaul. The Minnesota loss didn’t look bad until the wheels came off for the depleted Golden Gophers, but the other two stumbles were clear missteps. Do victories over Butler, Creighton (twice), Villanova and Xavier overcome those silly losses? Maybe. At the very least, Providence’s standing is a little stronger than it was a day ago. One caveat: The Friars are not an analytics darling, currently checking in at No. 72 in the KenPom.com rankings. Toss in the unusual quantity of shaky losses, and there might still be more for Providence to accomplish this week at the Garden. Kansas State is the perfect representative of the this year’s NCAA tournament bubble. The Wildcats (22-10) are perfectly milquetoast on paper. They don’t own a bunch of distinguishing victories; they went a combined 0-6 against the Big 12’s top three teams, Kansas, Texas Tech and West Virginia. At the same time, there’s nothing about Bruce Weber’s team that suggests it doesn’t belong in the field of 68. They have an abysmal nonconference schedule (ranked No. 337 of 351 Division I teams entering Thursday), but they’re hardly the only bubble teams to have blemish. That’s one reason K-State has vaulted into The Washington Post’s projected field (see below): If Virginia Tech gets in with an identical shortcoming and a slightly better set of victories, how far behind could Kansas State have been? Another reason is that this year, programs scrambling to avoid the NIT might not have to do that much to distinguish themselves. Kansas State might have earned just enough separation Thursday with its 66-64 overtime defeat of Texas Christian in the Big 12 quarterfinals. Sure, the Wildcats fouled with a two-point lead in the final seconds. TCU bailed them out by missing the free throws. It doesn’t matter how you win, just that you do. Today’s triumph will help K-State a bunch. Another one Friday against Kansas or Oklahoma State would do even more good. [One crying moment: 15 of the toughest defeats in NCAA tournament history] How much is enough for Alabama? The Crimson Tide‘s riveting 71-70 victory over Texas A&M in the Southeastern Conference tournament Thursday begs that very question. Did Alabama (18-14), loser of five in a row entering the league tournament, do enough to warrant inclusion in the field of 68 when Collin Sexton went coast to coast for a layup in the final 4.4 seconds? Or will something more — like a win over Auburn on Friday — be needed? The Crimson Tide faced the nation’s No. 5 schedule prior entering Thursday. It did almost all of its best work at home, with the exception a drubbing of Florida in Gainesville. Alabama also owned a respectable 5-6 record against Quadrant 1 teams in the NCAA’s tournament committee’s strength-of-schedule formulations. Two of its most questionable losses — Minnesota and Central Florida — came before those teams lost key players for the remainder of the season and subsequently faded. There’s always a temptation to read too much into recent performance, but the committee evaluates the entirety of the season. Though Alabama created some headaches for itself with its recent slide, it still gets credit for everything it accomplished. The Crimson Tide might still have work to do, but that beats a one-and-done showing in the SEC tournament. Louisville is in limbo, just like it has been all season. From the second Rick Pitino was fired, Louisville’s season wasn’t really about the season. It was about dealing with the fallout of Pitino’s exit, and what was to come after the program re-emerged from whatever penalties the NCAA levied. The 2017-18 Cardinals were a bridge between a past filled with removed banners and a future of heavens knows what. This interim team with an interim coach (David Padgett) produced a 20-13 record devoid of much accomplishment or demerit. The Cardinals lost, 75-58, to Virginia in Thursday’s ACC quarterfinals and will wait three days to learn how they will spend their postseason, however brief that stay may be. [This time, Virginia skips the drama vs. Louisville in ACC tournament quarterfinals] Louisville lost to Purdue, Seton Hall and Kentucky. It fell to Duke, North Carolina and Virginia (three times). Its most regrettable moments were home losses to Florida State and Syracuse; its biggest accomplishments defeats of borderline NCAA tournament teams Florida State, Notre Dame and Virginia Tech on the road. Maybe the Cardinals get in the NCAA tournament, and maybe they don’t. But 33 games into the season, they’d probably be one of the most forgettable teams in the field. Given the circumstances surrounding their season, it would be a fitting fate. ***** Bracket projection SOUTH REGION Charlotte (1) ATLANTIC COAST/Virginia vs. (16) BIG SOUTH/Radford — SOUTHWESTERN ATHLETIC/Arkansas-Pine Bluff winner (8) Missouri vs. (9) Southern California San Diego (5) Ohio State vs. (12) WESTERN ATHLETIC/New Mexico State (4) Texas Tech vs. (13) SUN BELT/UL Lafayette Wichita (3) AMERICAN ATHLETIC/Cincinnati vs. (14) BIG WEST/UC Davis (6) Seton Hall vs. (11) Virginia Tech Nashville (7) Texas Christian vs. (10) St. Bonaventure (2) SOUTHEASTERN/Auburn vs. (15) BIG SKY/Montana [Tony Bennett and Virginia hoops aren’t for everyone, but ‘it’s okay to be different’] EAST REGION Pittsburgh (1) Villanova vs. (16) SOUTHLAND/Southeastern Louisiana — NORTHEAST/LIU Brooklyn winner (8) UCLA vs. (9) Oklahoma Boise, Idaho (5) WEST COAST/Gonzaga vs. (12) MISSOURI VALLEY/Loyola Chicago (4) Clemson vs. (13) SUMMIT/South Dakota State Dallas (3) Tennessee vs. (14) PATRIOT/Bucknell (6) Miami vs. (11) Alabama-Providence winner Detroit (7) Creighton vs. (10) Kansas State (2) Purdue vs. (15) HORIZON/Wright State MIDWEST REGION Nashville (1) BIG EAST/Xavier vs. (16) MID-EASTERN ATHLETIC/Hampton (8) N.C. State vs. (9) MOUNTAIN WEST/Nevada Boise, Idaho (5) Florida vs. (12) MID-AMERICAN/Buffalo (4) West Virginia vs. (13) AMERICA EAST/Vermont Detroit (3) BIG TEN/Michigan vs. (14) SOUTHERN/UNC Greensboro (6) Kentucky vs. (11) Marquette-Florida State winner Pittsburgh (7) Houston vs. (10) Arizona State (2) North Carolina vs. (15) METRO ATLANTIC/Iona WEST REGION Wichita (1) BIG 12/Kansas vs. (16) IVY/Harvard (8) ATLANTIC 10/Rhode Island vs. (9) Butler San Diego (5) Wichita State vs. (12) CONFERENCE USA/Middle Tennessee (4) PAC-12/Arizona vs. (13) OHIO VALLEY/Murray State Dallas (3) Michigan State vs. (14) COLONIAL/College of Charleston (6) Texas A&M vs. (11) Texas Charlotte (7) Arkansas vs. (10) Saint Mary’s (2) Duke vs. (15) ATLANTIC SUN/Lipscomb ***** Field notes Last four included: Marquette, Florida State, Providence, Alabama Four just on the outside: Syracuse, Louisville, Baylor, Utah Next four on the outside: Notre Dame, Oklahoma State, Nebraska, Penn State Moving in: Kansas State Moving out: Syracuse Clinched automatic bids: Bucknell (Patriot), Charleston (Colonial), Gonzaga (West Coast), Iona (Metro Atlantic), Lipscomb (Atlantic Sun), LIU Brooklyn (Northeast), Loyola Chicago (Missouri Valley), Michigan (Big Ten), Murray State (Ohio Valley), Radford (Big South), South Dakota State (Summit), UNC Greensboro (Southern), Wright State (Horizon) Conference call: Atlantic Coast (8), Southeastern (8), Big East (7), Big 12 (7), Big Ten (4), Pac-12 (4), American Athletic (3), Atlantic 10 (2), West Coast (2) More college basketball: Kevin Stallings was a disaster from the start at Pittsburgh, and now he’s out Missouri’s Michael Porter Jr. is coming back for March Madness. Warren Buffett keeps trying to give away big bucks in an NCAA tournament bracket contest Tournament schedules and updates: ACC | Big East | Big 12 | Pac-12 | SEC