President Trump surprised everyone Tuesday morning (even, apparently, Rex Tillerson) with his decision to replace the secretary of state with CIA Director Mike Pompeo. The startling turn of events comes during one of the administration's greatest foreign policy challenges. Last week, Trump agreed, on a whim, to meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un by May for one-on-one talks. It was an astonishingly risky move, one that will require immense planning from a crack team. Of course, there are several other major and minor catastrophes in need of the secretary's attention. Russia continues to interfere in the United States and abroad, Syria's humanitarian toll has reached calamitous proportions, Israel and Iran inch ever closer to war. world  worldviews Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Today's WorldView newsletter What's most important from where the world meets Washington Please provide a valid email address. It's hard to know exactly how Pompeo will respond to these challenges. He is more hawkish than Tillerson and strongly opposed to the 2015 Iran nuclear deal. In a 2017 interview at the Aspen Institute, he suggested that Iran is responsible for the chaos in Iraq, Yemen and beyond, and that it must be stopped. (In that same interview, he said he cannot imagine a "stable Syria" with President Bashar al-Assad in power. He also listed the Islamic State as a major, continuing threat to the United States, and fretted about fighters' easy access to Europe.) [Trump ousts Tillerson, will replace him as secretary of state with CIA chief Pompeo] Some of the best insights about Pompeo's thinking, however, might come from his testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee last May, about the biggest threats facing the world. Alongside Andrew McCabe, then the FBI's acting director, and Director of National Intelligence Dan Coates, Pompeo talked about Russia, North Korea and even Venezuela. Here are some of the most important points he made: “We have a threat from flash points that something could spark and have a conventional war, right, wholly apart from the issues we talk about with ICBMs and nuclear. Just a well-armed adversary that our Department of Defense works hard to make sure and mitigate against those risks remain. They — the leader continues to develop, test, attempt to verify not only in the launches that we see, many of which have failed, but learned from each one, but continue to develop software that improves day by day. This threat is very real. We — we should not all focus simply on the ICBMs either. American interests are held at risk today by shorter-range missiles in theater. Enormous American assets." He also praised the Chinese for the pressure they put on North Korea, but warned that even more would be needed to bring the Kim regime to its knees. [Trump nominates Gina Haspel to head CIA, an agency veteran tied to use of brutal interrogation measures]