As the damning information about Facebook’s sloppy data protection practices and Cambridge Analytica’s role in using it during the 2016 presidential elections continues to accumulate, two very well-known people at the center of the scandal continue to remain silent: Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg, and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg. It’s little wonder. Consider some of the events of the past 24 hours: Company insiders are beginning to take their complaints public. “It’s his company. People on the outside want to hear from him,” one nameless Facebook executive told CNN. “There is a sense that Mark doesn’t get his hands dirty until problems are way too far down the road.” While it seems unlikely the unwholesome Facebook revelations will continue at this pace, it also seems unlikely this will go away anytime soon. As the details pile up about how the site allowed itself to be used during the 2016 election, the fury of both politicians and the public will likely grow. This will impact not just Facebook, but all the technology platforms. Ayelet Shaked, Israel’s Justice Minister, just announced the country was contemplating taking “legal action” against Twitter for allowing posters to incite terrorism. For the past decade, social media and other giant technological platforms have prospered by offering us a deal: we could use their products for free (or minimal cost), and in return they would use our data as they see fit. It didn’t ring the alarm bells it should have, because all too many people — including our leading politicians — bought into the idea promulgated by Silicon Valley that the technological transformation on offer was a unique good. The people behind it were well-intentioned, so why question what they did, never mind regulate it? That consensus is dissolving with each successive drip of information about Facebook. While ending the Wild West of no regulation that is the social media business in the United States currently certainly won’t serve the financial interests of the social media giants, and all those who use them to target their users, be they potential customers or would be voters, it’s the best thing that could happen to the rest of us, not to mention our politics.