Teams of heavily armed law enforcement officers rushed to a state-run veterans home — the largest in the country — in Northern California after a gunman with a rifle fired at a sheriff’s deputy and took workers hostage at a clinic for recent veterans. Officials with the California Highway Patrol said that the gunman arrived at the facility, one of the buildings at the Veterans Home of California-Yountville, around 10:20 a.m. A sheriff’s deputy who arrived four minutes later to respond to an emergency call exchanged fire with the suspect, Assistant Chief Chris Childs told reporters outside the facility. The gunman, whom officials declined to identify publicly, took an unknown number of hostages, eventually releasing all but three, Childs said. All the hostages were employees of the Pathway Home, which provides support and assistance to recent veterans who are transitioning back into the civilian world, including those suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. national  post-nation Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false   Please provide a valid email address. Officials said there were no reported injuries to any civilians or officers, but they did not know the status of the three hostages. The scene brought fear and terror to the small community in Yountville, a town of about 3,000 most famous for the upscale restaurant the French Laundry in the heart of California’s wine country. The winery Domain Chandon is less than a half mile away from the veterans home. The complex was shut down after the shooting, with those inside being asked to shelter in place. Some 80 high school students visiting a theater on the property were put in a “lockdown situation” before being evacuated, Napa County Sheriff John R. Robertson told reporters. Nearby facilities, including a golf course, were also evacuated. Larry Gomez told the television station ABC 7 he was hustled off the course by officials in golf carts. “They said shots were fired, and the golf course was being evacuated,” Gomez said. “Nothing surprises me in this day and age anymore.” Law enforcement agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and the Federal Bureau of Investigation were assisting in the response, joining deputies from the Napa County Sheriff’s Office as well as a SWAT team from the highway patrol. Hostage negotiators from at least three agencies were on the scene, but they had yet to make contact with the gunman, officials said. Concerned family members of the home’s residents gathered outside, some still waiting to make contact with their loved ones. “There’s just no answer and the anxiety just continues,” one man, who said his father lived at the home, told NBC. State Sen. Bill Dodd, who represents the area, said on NBC that the gunman was asked to leave the campus’s program for recent veterans earlier this week. Among the three hostages was a psychiatrist from the clinic, Dodd said. Childs said that negotiators had tried to reach the gunman on his cellphone as well as phones in the building, but they had thus far been unable to do so. Photographs from local news coverage showed armored vehicles and officers in tactical gear outside the building. The sheriff’s office asked people to avoid the area and said that there was no public safety threat beyond the room where the gunman was contained. June Iljana, a spokeswoman for the California Department of Veterans Affairs, said staff at the home were cooperating with law enforcement officials. “The safety of our residents, workers and the community is our top priority,” she said in a statement. Home to 1,000 elderly or disabled veterans of wars dating back to World War II, the Yountville residence is the largest home for veterans in the country, according to the Department of Veterans Affairs.