About six months after the #MeToo movement ignited and more than a year into the Trump presidency, the powerful fantasy that women might make less of a mess of the world than the men who currently control it has run up against some complications — and that’s putting it mildly. Gina Haspel, President Trump’s choice to be his second CIA director, ran one of the agency’s “black sites” where detainees were waterboarded and “was among a group of CIA officials involved in the decision to destroy videotapes of interrogation sessions that left some detainees on the brink of physical collapse.” Elizabeth Holmes, formerly a rising star in Silicon Valley, will pay a $500,000 fine after the Securities and Exchange Commission accused her company, Theranos, of perpetrating a “massive fraud.” When Ann Ziff became co-chairwoman of the Metropolitan Opera board of directors in 2010, the fact that she was female did not magically or automatically solve the problem posed by influential conductor James Levine, who was fired this week after an investigation into allegations of sexual misconduct that have circulated in classical music communities for years. Acting as if women are angels who will transform institutions through the sheer power of our virtue reinforces sexist tropes about female goodness. It’s also an example of hilariously magical thinking — and Naomi Alderman’s 2017 novel “The Power” is one of the best explanations I’ve seen of why this crazy hope persists, and why it so often fails. “The Power” imagines what might happen to the world if women suddenly developed the ability to deliver powerful electrical shocks generated from their bodies. Alderman’s book makes the case for why handing physical force and political authority to women might reproduce the same old vexed dynamics. opinions  act-four Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false   Please provide a valid email address. In Alderman’s imagination, the hasty redistribution of physical strength has a paradoxical effect. Yes, it enables more women to become leaders. But this happens because women are more able to conform to male-oriented ideas of what it means to be a leader — not because those ideas themselves have changed. Alderman’s characters experience this in different ways. Margot, an American politician, thinks she has ruined her career when she loses control and shocks her male opponent during a debate. But on Election Day, voters decide: “You know what, though, she’s strong. She’d show them.” Her electrical abilities and her hawkishness become the defining elements of her career. In Europe, Roxy, the daughter of a British crime lord, is able to rise through the ranks when she develops unusually strong powers that make her seem like an even more viable threat than her husband. And in Moldova, Tatiana Moskalev becomes the dictator of a breakaway state, pursuing an endless and increasingly brutal war, abusing a harem of young men and eventually descending into drunkenness and dissolution. It turns out that it’s easier to mold yourself to what voters, your fellow criminals or a military emergency seem to require than it is to take the time to question what those requirements should be, and to build a constituency for trying something radically new. Alderman may have invented the superpowers that propel Margot, Roxy and Tatiana to the top of their respective spheres. But she didn’t need to dream up the basic dynamics that made their rises possible. Of course, not all women in “The Power” — nor in the world we actually inhabit — are destined to run organizations or countries. Many of them are desperately brutalized, and when their powers begin to manifest, their first thought is to free themselves from sexual slavery or to strike back against the men who are shooting at them. It’s not fair to expect these women to stop to contemplate political theory in the midst of saving their own lives. But Alderman is blunt about the fact that people who have been abused don’t always have the moral fortitude, much less the perspective, to refrain from vengeance or overreach and even from becoming abusers themselves. The scenarios of rampaging women in “The Power” are more drastic than any of the #MeToo moments that have prompted dramatic hand-wringing about the prospect that men will be pushed out of their jobs or condemned simply for being poor communicators. Because she’s working with clear-cut scenarios of her own creation, Alderman does a better job than #MeToo’s most prominent critics of sketching out the risks involved in trying to clear a broken old system away without having an affirmative plan for what should replace it. The victory of the women who rise up against their oppressors is that the men who tried to repress them will never be able to hurt another woman again. Their tragedy is that they adopt the worst traits of the men they displaced. The thing about abruptly turning the world upside down is that afterward, it still contains the same things: They’ve just been rearranged. Inventing something truly different takes time, and it also takes more than a new set of people on top — in both the dystopia of “The Power” and the occasionally dystopian circumstances we actually live in.