CINCINNATI — A day after allaying the fears of conspiracy theorists everywhere by appearing in the Washington Nationals lineup, Ryan Zimmerman is out of it once again. This should not renew fears about his health. This was planned all along. Dave Martinez planned to sit Zimmerman on Saturday against Cincinnati Reds right-hander Luis Castillo, opting instead to give left-handed-hitting Matt Adams his first start of the season. He also planned to replace right-handed Michael A. Taylor with left-handed Brian Goodwin, who is 1 for 3 against Castillo in his career. Adams will hit cleanup, as Zimmerman did Friday. Goodwin will hit seventh, where Taylor batted Friday. “I want to keep everyone engaged early and get them out there right away,” Martinez said. “For me, it was a perfect matchup for these guys.” [ Boswell: For Dave Martinez, Nationals’ lineup is never out of order, just shaken up a bit ] Martinez described Castillo, who probably has the best stuff of any Reds starter, as having an electric fastball that jumps at hitters from a three-quarters arm slot. In his experience with Castillo from his days as a bench coach in the National League Central, Martinez thinks lefties stand a far better chance against him because they can see the ball much better. Lefties hit .185 against Castillo in 2017, his rookie year. Righties hit. 216. Adams pinch-hit in Friday’s game but will likely spell Zimmerman at least as often as Adam Lind did last year. Adams hit .296 with an .896 OPS against right-handed pitching in 2017. Zimmerman hit .295 with an .895 OPS against right-handers. “[Adams] could play every day for any other team,” Martinez said. “I’m fortunate enough to have him here with us, and I want to get him his at-bats.” Zimmerman and Taylor will both be available off the bench. Both are healthy after their 2018 debuts. Adam Eaton, who reached base twice Friday, is also back in the lineup. Martinez removed him from Friday’s win in the seventh inning, so as to ease his workload as he continues to rebuild from last year’s anterior cruciate ligament repair surgery. Eaton played in a week’s worth of spring training games before the Nationals headed north but has yet to play nine innings. [ Adam Eaton proved he’s healthy and ready to be a spark plug for the Nationals ] “I talked to him after the game. He said he felt great,” Martinez said. “So I asked him if he could play today and he said, ‘Absolutely.’ But he knows we’re going to have to give him some days off, but we’ll see where it goes and how far it goes. He loves to play, and right now he’s doing really well.” In other news, Daniel Murphy hit on the field and took groundballs with teammates before Saturday’s game. Murphy continues to jog with a limp and wear a substantial knee brace on his surgically repaired knee. Martinez said he will remain with the team until he is ready to play in rehab games, an indefinite time period. WASHINGTON NATIONALS (1-0) Adam Eaton LF Anthony Rendon 3B Bryce Harper RF Matt Adams 1B Howie Kendrick 2B Trea Turner SS Brian Goodwin CF Matt Wieters C Stephen Strasburg P CINCINNATI REDS (0-1) Jesse Winker RF Eugenio Suarez 3B Joey Votto 1B Scooter Gennett 2B Scott Schebler CF Adam Duvall LF Jose Peraza SS Tucker Barnhart C Luis Castillo P