CHARLOTTE — Jairus Lyles and his Maryland Baltimore County teammates arrived back at their hotel in the wee hours on Saturday morning, still basking in the immediate afterglow of a transformative upset over Virginia. Their fans awaited in the lobby, where the Retrievers coaching staff and players celebrated being the first No. 16 seed in the history of the NCAA men’s basketball tournament to defeat a No. 1 seed along with university officials, including President Freeman A. Hrabowski III. [Brewer: UMBC president is an activist, innovator and ‘mega nerd.’ His latest role: Giddy basketball fan.] UMBC Coach Ryan Odom eventually encouraged his charges to head to their rooms and try to get some rest, but that assignment proved almost fruitless for just about every member of the roster as the coaching staff was getting set to watch film of No. 9 seed Kansas State, the next opponent in Sunday’s second-round game at Spectrum Center. “Our fans and our family were waiting for us as soon as we got back to the hotel, so we shared a little moment with them,” said guard Jairus Lyles, who scored a game-high 28 points on 9-for-11 shooting in the 74-54 victory. “I don’t think anybody on the team really got to sleep until about 4 a.m.” For Lyles, the stunning outcome against the country’s top defensive outfit carried special meaning in several ways. First, his father Lester was a standout defensive back for Virginia who went on to play in the NFL. Also significant for Lyles is carrying the banner for schools in D.C., Maryland and Virginia, with the Retrievers the last team standing from the region on the men’s side. As a graduate student, Lyles had opportunities to play elsewhere this season but elected to remain in Catonsville to finish his college basketball career. Lyles played high school basketball at DeMatha, a powerhouse recognized nationally for producing NBA talent, grew up in Silver Spring and spent one season at Virginia Commonwealth before transferring to Robert Morris and then UMBC, where he has helped elevate the program to previously unmatched heights. In addition to being part of one of the most improbable wins in sports history, Lyles also was responsible for making a three-pointer at the buzzer to beat Vermont, 65-62, in the America East championship game, securing the Retrievers’ second bid in school history to the NCAA tournament. “It means a lot just to play on for the state of Maryland,” Lyles said. “I know everybody on the team isn’t from Maryland, but we have a lot of guys from the area, so it means a lot. We’ve been getting texts and social-media posts, just people we don’t even know from Maryland just saying how excited they are for us, how they’re rooting for us, so it’s very special.” [An energized, digitized UMBC community has one word for America: ‘Sup.’] UMBC has three players from the Maryland suburbs on its roster, including Jourdan Grant, a top reserve. Grant is a senior guard who had eight points and four rebounds against the Cavaliers. He shot 3 for 6 in contributing to UMBC’s 54 percent shooting overall and 68 percent in the second half, when it scored 53 points. Grant grew up in Bowie and played high school basketball at Archbishop Spalding in Anne Arundel County. He had drawn interest from George Washington, George Mason and Towson as well as from other, non-local mid-majors such as Bucknell. Reserve Ishmail Jabbie is the Retrievers’ other player from Maryland. The junior guard grew up in Greenbelt and played high school basketball at Prince George’s County power Eleanor Roosevelt. “It means a lot just to represent the home town,” Grant said. “To have the fan support behind us, the whole DMV behind us, man, or the DM behind us, it feels great.” Odom, meanwhile, has ties to the region as well, having served as a ballboy for the Virginia men’s team when his father, Dave, served as assistant on Terry Holland’s staff from 1982 through ’89. Ryan Odom took over at UMBC, roughly a three-hour drive from Charlottesville, where he spent much of his childhood, in 2016-17 and since has directed the Retrievers to 46 wins. UMBC had won 41 games combined over the previous seven seasons. “It’s a historic event,” Ryan Odom said. “For us, we experienced this on a much smaller scale when Jairus hit the shot at Vermont. There was a ton of focus on us at that point that we weren’t really used to, mostly within the UMBC community, greater Baltimore area. Everybody was excited about going to the dance. “Now this is a little bit different story here. We’ve got to encourage our guys, and already have, to kind of turn the page. The biggest thing is, ‘Do you want to be done now, or do you want to try put your best foot forward and continue on?’ ” More on UMBC and the NCAA tournament: March Madness live: Updates, TV schedule from the tournament UMBC needs another perfect storm to defeat Kansas State Sister Jean, 98, will pray for Loyola Chicago. But she’ll do the scouting herself. Updated NCAA tournament round-by-round odds Villanova runs hot over Alabama, in play if not temperament There is a formula to beating Virginia, and UMBC followed it to perfection ‘I don’t have the answers’: For Virginia, collapse against UMBC is a statistical mystery Maryland governor predicted UMBC’s win and has the Retrievers going all the way