William H.T. “Bucky” Bush, a wealthy investor and the brother and uncle of presidents, died Feb. 28 at his home in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 79. Former Florida governor Jeb Bush (R) confirmed his uncle’s death but did not describe the cause. “Bucky” Bush, the brother of President George H.W. Bush, uncle of President George W. Bush and youngest son of Sen. Prescott S. Bush of Connecticut, was also active in Republican politics. He chaired his nephew’s presidential reelection campaign in Missouri. At the time, he recounted that he used to babysit the future 43rd president of the United States. Mr. Bush also was co-founder and chairman of Bush O’Donnell Investment Advisors in St. Louis. Before that, he was president of Boatmen’s National Bank of St. Louis. He also served on the boards of corporations and foundations, including WellPoint Inc., now Anthem, the parent company of multiple Blue Cross and Blue Shield health insurers. At one WellPoint board meeting in 2010, Mr. Bush collapsed, bringing an abrupt end to a consumer campaign against insurance premium hikes. Mr. Bush also was in the spotlight in 2007, when he and other directors of a defense contractor reaped a total of $6 million from what federal regulators called an illegal scheme by two executives to manipulate the timing of stock option grants. Mr. Bush was a nonexecutive director of St. Louis-based Engineered Support Systems, whose profits were bolstered because of the Iraq War. He was not accused of any personal wrongdoing in a lawsuit filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, but the agency said he made about $450,000 selling some of his stock in 2005. Mr. Bush offered no comment to the Associated Press at the time. William Henry Trotter Bush was born in Greenwich, Conn., on July 14, 1938. He was the youngest of five children of Prescott Bush, a Wall Street investment banker who served as a Republican senator from Connecticut from 1952 to 1963, and the former Dorothy Walker. After graduating in 1956 from the private Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., he received a bachelor’s degree from Yale University in 1960. He helped start Bush O’Donnell in 1986. His wife, the former Patricia Redfearn, whom he married in 1959, died in 2015. They had two children. A complete list of survivors was not immediately available. Read more  Washington Post obituaries    