OMAHA — The string of Elite Eight games involving Mike Krzyzewski stretches back so far across time that the star against whom Krzyzewski game-planned for the first one is a famous giant who went on to have three sons, the third of whom has reached age 21 and plays nowadays for, yeah, Mike Krzyzew­ski. That present-day player, a reserve sitting untroubled at his Midwest Region locker here on Saturday, mulled a quiz question: Could he name the Duke coach’s first Elite Eight opponent? “No,” he began. Then he paused. “Oh, was that against my dad?” Justin Robinson said. Then he laughed a brief but semi-rollicking laugh. “I didn’t know that was [Krzyzewski’s] first,” he said. “I definitely knew they played in the Elite Eight. That’s cool.” As No. 2 seed Duke will play No. 1 seed Kansas here Sunday in a match with blue blood streaming through its arteries, the pregame offers a deeply curious contrast of Elite Eight backgrounds. In the round of the tournament that Kansas Coach Bill Self has called the hardest and which some coaches call the most painful of the possible exit ramps, Krzyzewski has a 12-2 record stratospheric enough to be nearly absurd, while Self stands 2-7, including 2-5 at Kansas. [Elite Eight schedule, TV info, results and March Madness bracket] Looking back, Krzyzewski sees importance in what happened 10 years and six-plus months before Robinson’s birth. In March 1986, Krzyzewski and his Dawkinses and his Alaries and his Bilases and his Hendersons and his Amakers reached Krzyzewski’s first regional final in his third crack at the tournament. They had a 35-2 record and a No. 1 seeding. Their opponent really was Navy. Navy had David Robinson, later of two NBA titles in San Antonio and Olympic gold medals in Barcelona and Atlanta. It had a 30-4 record, a No. 7 seeding and a fresh status as a generator of national chatter. It had plowed through No. 10 seed Tulsa by 87-68 and No. 2 seed Syracuse by 97-85 before withstanding No. 14 seed Cleveland State by 71-70. Its convergence with Duke qualified as unique. As Michael Wilbon wrote in The Washington Post — and whatever became of him, anyway? — “Even some uniformed Army cadets were in attendance screaming for rival Navy.” As the game developed, a different kind of spectator activity formed, that of Duke fans chanting at Navy, “Abandon ship!” Navy had led 20-16, but then Duke led 56-33 on the way to a 71-50 victory. “Yeah, I mean, I know Duke was too good back then,” Justin Robinson said. “Yeah, I don’t know. My dad’s told me about it a couple of times. Always around March he talks about his college days and stuff, how much fun it was. But he said, ‘Yeah, they were Duke. They were too good.’ ” Duke’s win that day would wreak a box score from which one statistic radiated. Duke not only outrebounded Navy 45-26 but amassed 34 rebounds in the first half, with rebounds all over the sheet, led by the 10 from Jay Bilas and including even five from guard Tommy Amaker. “We played like girls inside today,” David Robinson said, demonstrating what prehistoric years those were, back when only a smattering of Americans comprehended how ferociously girls do rebound. In a strategic novelty of the moment, Krzyzewski and Duke played Robinson straight-up, snuffing out the supporting cast. It worked. It also wound up providing Krzyzewski with something deeply valuable: a first trip across the bridge upon a first visit to the bridge. He explained that Saturday, in reference to the peerless hardness of the Elite Eight. “Just to explain why I think coaches look at it like that, for us in the coaching profession, one of the bridges, the biggest bridge you can cross is the Final Four bridge,” he said. “No matter how many games you’ve won, if you haven’t gone there, it’s an empty feeling. And so when you do get there, there’s somewhat of relief — happiness but also a relief that you get there. So when you get to this point, it’s a huge bridge. And so, for me personally, we were able to cross it right away. And so my feeling was in ’86, we, we got there right away. So I didn’t go through the suffering.” He would go to six more regional finals without knowing that most discourteous exit — through 1988, then 1989 and 1990 and 1991 and 1992 and 1994. By the time Elite Eight defeat finally did happen, Krzyzewski was on to one of the finer secrets of the coaching profession, one explained through the years by other coaches such as Billy Donovan and Tom Izzo: Once you have done it yourself, you just want to do it mostly for those with whom you’re collaborating. In 1998, Duke led Kentucky 71-54 with 9:38 left in the South Region final before Kentucky overcame a towering set of inconvenient circumstances for an 86-84 win and one of the greatest comebacks in tournament history. “Like in ’98 when we didn’t get it, we lost to Kentucky, and I can remember that locker room. Steve Wojceichowski was my captain, and it was the toughest locker room I’ve ever been in as a collegiate coach,” Krzyzewski said. “And although I’d been there before, it was their time. So I think if you’ve been there before, you kind of relate to what the players are feeling at that time.” [“They forget about the ’98 game”: Kentucky’s legendary Elite Eight games with Duke] Self first ventured into this wonderful, horrible round in 2000, with what he called “house money”: a Tulsa team seeded No. 7. It lost to Bill Guthridge’s North Carolina, then a No. 8 seed. Self took Illinois as a No. 1 seed the next year but lost to No. 2 Arizona. Then, in his first 14 seasons with Kansas, he has won a title (2008) and reached a title game (2012), tucked amid Elite Eight losses to Georgia Tech in overtime (2004), UCLA (2007), VCU (2011), Villanova (2016) and Oregon (2017), the last four of those as a No. 1 seed. He squeezed across the bridge in 2008 against Steph Curry’s Davidson and in 2012 as a No. 2 seed against a No. 1 North Carolina. Might it help that people haven’t fancied Kansas so much this tournament? There is so much talk around Kansas about the importance of being “loose” and “free” that you could tire of the words “loose” and “free,” threatening looseness and freedom. “I don’t think it lights a fire,” Self said of the recent Elite Eight losses. “I think sometimes they can be learning experiences which maybe make you more prepared because we lost to the national champion, Villanova, in a one-possession game two years ago, and last year we didn’t play very well, and Oregon ended up beating us, double-figures, I think [74-60]. But certainly they’ve got to play like there’s no what-ifs. Just let it go. Let it go. If you play to try to protect something tomorrow, we’ll go home sad.” He thinks his guys understand that, and they will take that understanding against a splashily talented team and a coach who has saddened Elite Eight foes dating back 32 long, winding years, long enough that David Robinson long since got to know Krzyzewski with the 1992 Dream Team and became a Duke fan and so long that Justin Robinson had to go to old videos “just to see what my dad looked like in college.” And? “Good,” he said. “Yeah, I was impressed. Very impressed.” More NCAA tournament coverage: Florida State vs. Michigan: Pregame reading and in-game updates Loyola Chicago vs. Kansas State: Pregame reading and in-game updates Ask Texas Tech’s coach about basketball, and you might get an answer about Whataburger Feinstein: Haas could only watch as Purdue reached the end of its run Duke handles pesky Syracuse, earns NCAA Elite Eight date with Kansas Kansas tops Clemson despite late letdown to reach Elite Eight Feinstein: In a slugfest, Villanova shows it can take a punch Round-by-round odds: Villanova becomes the title favorite over Duke