Metrobus is operating limited service Wednesday in anticipation of the storm that is expected to dump snow and create hazardous driving conditions across the Washington region. Metrorail also started the day on a modified schedule, but plans are to run trains both above and below ground, the transit agency said. MARC and VRE commuter trains are suspended Wednesday and other suburban bus systems are shutting down or reducing operations. Transit officials warned that more service changes are possible as roads deteriorate throughout the day Wednesday. Riders should expect delays and detours. And, in some areas, bus service could be canceled as the region copes with what is forecast to be several inches of snow. Metro opened at 5 a.m., with trains running on a modified weekday schedule, the agency said. Crews deployed deicing trains overnight and have plows on standby to help clear tracks, Metro said. Additional workers will be called in to clear station platforms, walkways and parking areas. The transit agency said the upper levels of some Metro parking garage may close due to snow accumulation. And, due to the severe weather the agency’s Rush Hour Promise program will not be in effect Wednesday. “Every effort will be made to maintain rail service; however, weather-related delays are possible,” Metro said. “If weather conditions become severe, service may be further curtailed.” [ Washington’s biggest snowstorm of the winter likely Wednesday, starting before dawn ] Metrobus started Wednesday on a “Moderate Snow Plan,” which means buses will not drive on hilly roads, narrow streets and other problem areas. Some routes are suspended under the Moderate Snow Plan, while others operate on detours. Buses will run on the reduced service until further notice, the transit agency said. “All bus customers should plan for delays and increased wait times due to road conditions,” Metro said in a statement. “Additional service changes may be necessary as conditions warrant.” [ Spring snowstorm begins to snarl air travel in the Northeast ] MetroAccess service could also be impacted and customers are urged to cancel all nonessential trips. Passengers should expect delays. In Maryland, all MARC commuter train lines are suspended Wednesday and state transportation officials said a decision will be announced later Wednesday about whether service will resume Thursday. In Northern Virginia, the Virginia Railway Express also suspended its commuter rail service, citing the expectation that conditions on the ground would deteriorate as the day unfolds.  As of 7 a.m., the snow was still widely absent in much of the region. “While we may be able to get passengers to the their destinations this morning, the deteriorating weather conditions throughout the day is of great concern to getting everyone home safely tonight,” VRE said. Other smaller bus systems were also taking precautions.  In Prince George’s County, the bus system TheBus and the county’s paratransit services are suspended, officials said.  In Montgomery County, Ride On was operating on limited schedules and asked riders to check its website for route schedules and expect delays due to road conditions. The Fairfax Connnector is operating on Saturday schedule and Alexandria’s DASH is reducing service to it’s snow bus routes only. For more information about the road conditions and closures, follow our full storm coverage.  Also, get the latest about this storm from the Capital Weather Gang.