People around the country and world are participating in anti-gun violence demonstrations Saturday, local versions of the March for Our Lives rally that could draw an enormous crowd of protesters to the District. There are more than 800 events scheduled to take place worldwide, according to the gun control group Everytown. The largest marches are expected in cities including New York, Chicago and Los Angeles. There also will be demonstrations in Parkland, Fla., where a shooting that killed 17 students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School became the catalyst for the marches, and in Las Vegas, where a gunman killed 58 people at a country music festival last year. A march is also planned in Jonesboro, Ark., on the 20th anniversary of a shooting at a middle school there that killed four students and a teacher and wounded 10. national   Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false Must Reads newsletter 5 stories you can't afford to miss, every Saturday. Please provide a valid email address. [March for Our Lives: The nation’s capital has been preparing for weeks. Today, the voices will rise. ] Josephina Davis, a 15-year-old from Boston, was seven when her brother, Johnny, was shot and killed. Davis said she is protesting “to support other people who have lost people to gun violence.” Counterprotests by gun rights supporters are also expected in places including Boston, Boise, Salt Lake City and Valparaiso, Ind. In Utah, the organizers of the pro-gun March Before Our Lives wrote on Facebook: “We march in support of the rights, lives, safety, and security of our children. We shall defend ourselves, our families, and those that cannot, or will not defend themselves, utilizing any means at our disposal, including our rights under the 2nd Amendment.” Anti-gun protests are taking place worldwide, some with just a handful of people and others comprised of large crowds. Groups gathered outside the U.S. Embassies in Copenhagen, London and Stockholm; in London they shouted “gun control now.” In Tokyo, people gathered at Shibuya Crossing, holding signs with the names of people killed in mass shootings. In Frankfurt, a group walked down a street shouting, “no guns in our schools.” In Sydney, a group of children held posters. Iris Diaz, a student at Stoneman Douglas, is on a long-planned trip to Prague. But she will still march. “She’s with friends from school, and they’re going to march on Saturday down the streets of Prague,” her mother, Audrey Diaz, said. [Warm coats, dress shoes and messages to lawmakers: Parkland students head to D.C. for gun-control march ] In New York, there was some confusion Saturday morning as protesters arrived at the march with mixed messages about which block they should gather at for the 10 a.m. rally. Initially following instructions to gather at 72nd street on the west side of Central Park, protestors eventually pooled at 61st street — a relatively small group compared to January’s Women’s March — where the stage was set for speakers. Protestors on scene were enthusiastic and good spirited, with fewer signs and no chants like other marches. Dr. Steve Auerbach, a pediatrician, arrived early with a coalition of physicians from multiple doctors groups representing the city’s big hospitals to get a place front and center in front of the stage. “I used to do ER work in Los Angeles and Atlanta and saw pediatric gun violence on a daily basis,” Dr. Auerbach said. “As a pediatrician and a father I find it appalling, the ease of access to guns.” [Tenacious new gun researchers are determined to break cycle of mass shootings ] In Columbus, Ga., about a dozen organizers set up a stage in the city’s downtown, curious how many people would attend an anti-gun rally in the conservative city. Six-year old Vivian Anderson was ready to wave her hand-drawn sign — after she gets out of ballet class. “This is a family thing,” her mother, Alexa Johnson-Anderson, said. “The fact that my kids are having to do lockdown drills. They just know they have to be quiet. But as a parent, that should not be the norm. It’s something to think kids at this age have to go through that.” Diana Crandall in New York, Jim Lynn in Columbus, Ga., and Lori Rosza in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., contributed reporting