Maryland women’s basketball Coach Brenda Frese has a mantra she likes to repeat to her team before away games. “Anytime you go play on the road, Coach’s big thing is you have to be 10 points better,” senior guard Kristen Confroy said Wednesday afternoon at Xfinity Center, wearing a ball cap and sweats instead of her practice uniform as the team prepared to load a charter bus for a ride to Raleigh, N.C. “Whether it’s playing against home court officials or the crowd, whatever it may be, you’ve got to be better on the road.” That’s the state of the Terrapins hope to be in as they open the NCAA tournament away from College Park for the first time since 2007. No. 5 seed Maryland hit the road for the 300-mile bus ride to North Carolina State’s Reynolds Coliseum to play No. 12 seed Princeton in the first round at 12:30 p.m. on Friday. The winner will face the winner of Friday’s second game between No. 13 Elon and the host, fourth-seeded North Carolina State, on Sunday.  The Terps are hoping the rare tournament-opening road trip makes them a sharper team on court. “It’s the environment, obviously, the crowd’s going to be rooting for the home team, whatever it may be, so it really is your staff, your team, and that’s it,” Confroy said. “That’s who’s rooting for you, and I think it’s an added element of a mind-set that we’re on the road — it’s us against everybody. And in many ways, that helps you come out with more fire and spark.” Maryland (25-7) is in the habit of playing on the road at this point; six of its last seven games since Feb. 18 have been on road or neutral courts, and three ended in defeat. The worst of the bunch was a 19-point loss at Minnesota on Feb. 18 in which the Terps committed 14 turnovers and caught the Golden Gophers toward the end of a seven-game win streak at home. But Maryland has gained plenty of road experience since then, and Frese is pleased with how her team has played. Their overall record away from Xfinity Center is 13-4. That gives the team confidence before another road trip, and Frese is happy that Raleigh is within driving distance for fans and family members of several of her players. Still, with just three full days to prepare for Princeton, Frese hasn’t spent too much time fretting about location. Maryland has played the Tigers twice in program history, in November 2007 and in the second round of the 2015 NCAA tournament, when the Terps beat the previously undefeated Tigers, 85-70, in College Park. Tigers Coach Courtney Banghart won national coach of the year that season. This year, she comes to Raleigh with the Ivy League tournament championship, a team that shoots 43.3 percent from the field and a few familiar faces in Maryland natives Bella Alarie (National Cathedral School), Abby Meyers (Whitman High) and Qalea Ismail (Patterson Mill in Bel Air). [The D.C. high school basketball fan’s guide to the women’ NCAA tournament] Frese and Confroy described Princeton (24-5) as a fundamentally sound, hyper-disciplined team with a crafty offense. “They’re a really high IQ, really smart passing team,” Frese said. “We’re going to have to defend the three; they can score the ball really well.” Maryland’s focus will be matching that discipline come Friday afternoon, which is partly why, as of Wednesday, the team hadn’t explicitly started incorporating any of Princeton’s offense or defense into practice. “I think the coaches started working it in a little bit, but they didn’t tell us anything,” Confroy said. “They’re really fundamental, so for us, it’s staying disciplined and staying within Maryland basketball, which I think is why we did practice the way we did yesterday. If we play our standard, we’ll be all right, but if we start to play into their hand a little bit, that could bring us some trouble.” The team planned to go over Princeton’s film Wednesday night after they settled in Raleigh. Before then, Confroy was looking forward to a long bus ride with her teammates to get her mind right. She didn’t want to take the trip for granted. “Really, for me, it’s my last tournament, this could be one of the last times I pack my bag,” Confroy said. “You do it so often that you forget how much you should be excited for it, you know what I mean? Going into my last one has given me a unique perspective that I haven’t had in the past. I’m looking forward to it.” More NCAA tournament coverage: NCAA tournament live: Schedule, TV info and latest updates Round-by-round odds, projections for every team in the bracket One crying moment: 15 of the toughest defeats in NCAA tournament history Brewer: March Madness is the NCAA’s greatest hypocrisy and its best hope of salvation Rep your team, troll your rivals: Dancing mascot GIFs for every NCAA tournament team