The Washington Capitals didn’t play Thursday night, but they still clinched a postseason berth. And of all people they have Pittsburgh Penguins center Sidney Crosby to thank. [ Capitals owner Ted Leonsis has no comment on whether Barry Trotz will be coach next season ] One of several scenarios that would’ve made Washington officially playoff-bound was a New Jersey Devils loss to the Penguins on Thursday night. New Jersey had a 3-2 lead with roughly 14 minutes left in the game, but then Patric Hornqvist tied it to send the game to overtime, where Crosby scored the winner in pretty stunning fashion. Crosby is here for opening day in OT. ⚾️ pic.twitter.com/hy4PUGJn00 Had Pittsburgh not defeat New Jersey, the Capitals would have still clinched a playoff spot because the Florida Panthers lost to the Ottawa Senators in overtime, 3-2. Washington has now made the playoffs in all four seasons under Coach Barry Trotz, though they bowed out in the second round the first three times. The Capitals have a comfortable five-point lead over the Penguins for first place in the Metropolitan Division while also having played one fewer game. Washington will most likely face either the Philadelphia Flyers or the Columbus Blue Jackets in the first round. “It’s one of the goals, for sure,” goaltender Braden Holtby said of clinching a playoff spot. “The NHL how it is, it doesn’t really matter where you are in the standings. You’ve just got to make the playoffs, and that was one of our goals this year. We knew there was going to be some ups and downs, and one of the main goals was making the playoffs. … It’s good. The guys should be proud. We should be proud we’re in a position like that, and you move on to the next goal.” More on the Capitals: sports  washington-capitals Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. ‘The crown gets pretty heavy’: Capitals happy to fly under the radar for a change Shane Gersich impresses in first game with Capitals, but will he stick? Capitals are better late, with equalizer at end of regulation and winner in OT