A bill that would significantly overhaul how the Maryland General Assembly deals with allegations of sexual harassment passed the House of Delegates Monday, but its fate in the Senate remains unclear. The legislation — which among other things would allow alleged victims of harassment to request an independent investigator and mandate anti-harassment training for lobbyists as well as lawmakers — was not expected to advance when the General Assembly session opened in January. But a detailed report by the Women Legislators of Maryland caucus that described specific incidents of harassment and called it a persistent problem in the state house, along with numerous personal accounts published in The Washington Post and elsewhere, appear to have given the bill momentum. “It’s been really challenging getting to this day,” said Del. Ariana B. Kelly (D-Montgomery), president of the women’s caucus and one of four female lawmakers who spoke publicly in recent weeks about being harassed. Kelly told her colleagues on the House floor that the bill developed out of conversations among five female lawmakers that began in fall of 2016. They, in turn, reached out to current and former lobbyists and staffers. “We realized we had some shared, similar experiences, and we thought breaking the silence would really increase our power,” Kelly said. In an interview, she added: “I’m just pleased that it’s a strong bill. . . And I hope the Senate passes it intact.” Senate President Thomas V. Mike Miller Jr. (D-Calvert) did not respond to a request for comment Monday. He and House Speaker Michael E. Busch (D-Anne Arundel) set up a commission in January to review the harassment policies of all three branches of government. The panel is not expected to release a final report until December, and Miller previously indicated that he wanted to wait until the commission’s work was finished before changing the General Assembly’s policies. Kelly said she has not spoken to Miller about the measure since the bill started moving in the House, but received some assurance from him last month that he was open to considering the measure. Kelly’s bill was approved on Crossover Day, the date by which most bills need to have emerged from at least one chamber of the legislature in order to have a chance of becoming law. Other bills that received final passage in the House included legislation supported by Gov. Larry Hogan (R), that would allow judges to admit evidence of past, similar sex offenses during trials of suspects accused of rape. Under current law, prosecutors trying repeat sex offenders are not allowed to use evidence of past incidents that are not directly related to pending charges. The Senate unanimously passed its version of the bill last week. The House also approved a bill that would make the placement of nooses and swastikas on properties without permission of the property’s owner and with the intent to intimidate a person or group of people a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment of up to three years and/or a $5,000 fine. The legislation, which now goes to the Senate, follows the discovery of nooses last year in a fraternity house at the University of Maryland and a middle school in Anne Arundel County. Maryland’s current hate-crime laws bar people from damaging or destroying property because of an individual’s race, color, religious belief, sexual orientation, gender, national origin or because that person is homeless. But they do not include specific penalties for the placement of nooses or swastikas. There were 93 hate crime incidents reported in Maryland in 2016, more than double the number in 2015, according to state police data. The House voted 90-48 in favor of a plan to stabilize soaring individual health insurance premiums by taxing insurance companies and using the money to pay the biggest claims. The Senate, which gave initial approval to the plan last week, is scheduled to hold a final vote Monday night. “What we’re doing here is putting a tourniquet on the individual market,” said Del. Joseline Peña-Melnyk (D-Prince George’s), who sponsored the bill. “It’s the right thing to do for all Marylanders, because we have to care.” Delegates issued a reprimand of sorts to state Comptroller Peter Franchot, following months of political squabbling over regulations in the craft beer industry. Lawmakers voted to establish a taskforce to study whether Franchot’s agency should continue to have the power to regulate Maryland’s alcoholic beverages. The legislation, which now goes to the Senate, followed an unfavorable committee vote Friday on legislation pushed by Franchot to loosen regulations on the craft beer industry, which he says are overly burdensome. local md-politics  Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Afternoon Buzz newsletter Major stories about the D.C. area, weekdays at 4 p.m. Please provide a valid email address. Last year, Franchot convened a “Reform on Tap” taskforce to study the legal restrictions on the production and sale of craft beers in Maryland, which has lagged behind Virginia, D.C., Pennsylvania and Delaware in terms of the size of its craft beer industry. Many of the lawmakers in the House Economic Matter Committee felt they were not properly consulted by Franchot during the process, said Del. Dereck E. Davis (D-Prince George’s), who chairs the committee. Franchot’s longtime chief of staff, said his boss’s bill died because lobbyists for the beer industry wield “disproportionate power” over lawmakers.  Read more: Security video shows encounter that prompted lawmaker complaint against lobbyist Maryland’s female lawmakers push back on harassment — quietly Del. Kelly: Mary;and’s reckoning on sexual harassment is here