BOISE, Idaho — When this NCAA tournament field was announced, there was plenty of talk about how difficult of a draw the Arizona Wildcats were handed. There was the potential matchup with Kentucky — a fellow preseason top-five team — in the second round. There was a mouthwatering potential meeting in the Sweet 16 with No. 1 overall seed Virginia. What wasn’t discussed, however, was a first-round loss to Buffalo. Yet that’s exactly what happened. The No. 13 seed Bulls authored the biggest upset of the tournament’s first day, hammering the fourth-seeded Wildcats, 89-68. “I can’t say enough about our guys,” Buffalo Coach Nate Oats said. “I thought we had a shot. “I didn’t think we’d win it like that, but I thought we could win this game.” [One crying moment: 15 of the toughest defeats in NCAA tournament history] The Bulls (27-8) did it in style, too, getting a combined 67 points from a trio of guards — senior Wes Clark, who led all scorers with 25, as well as 23 from junior Jeremy Harris and 19 from junior C.J. Massinburg. Buffalo, the Mid-American Conference’s regular season and tournament champion, shot 54.8 percent from the field and went 15 for 30 from three-point range — including 9 for 14 from behind the arc in the second half. “It’s simple,” Clark said. “It’s just making shots no matter who is out there. It’s the same as in the MAC. . . . It’s the same three-point line, so we just have the same confidence and not worry about who is on the defensive end.” Arizona (27-8), the Pacific-12’s regular season and tournament champion, fell apart under the onslaught. After senior center Dusan Ristic scored with 17:22 remaining to give the Wildcats a 46-45 lead, Buffalo went on a 10-2 run to turn a game that had gone back-and-forth throughout the first half. After Arizona cut it to 60-55 with 12:11 remaining, Buffalo went on a 19-5 run over the next eight minutes to effectively remove any suspense, allowing for the many post mortems on Arizona’s season to begin. “With us being a MAC team, it’s easy to look at us as a team that can’t compete with a high major with four NBA prospects,” Clark said. “But we watched enough film and got our confidence up overnight. We knew we could play with these guys and came out and played hard.” sports   Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. Buffalo will now move on to face fifth-seeded Kentucky here Saturday. Arizona, meanwhile, will head back to Tucson wondering what is going to happen to its program. DeAndre Ayton, Allonzo Trier and Rawle Alkins have already declared for the draft. Combined with Ristic and Parker Jackson-Cartwright graduating, the Wildcats will lose their entire starting five. [Blackistone: When NCAA teams cheat, black assistant coaches wear the black hat] Add in the uncertainty surrounding Arizona Coach Sean Miller, who was wrapped up in the ongoing FBI investigation into college basketball after a report surfaced he’d been heard talking about a $100,000 payment to secure Ayton’s commitment, and it will undoubtedly be a long offseason for one of the country’s most prestigious programs. It just wasn’t an offseason that was supposed to begin Friday morning. Buffalo, however, made sure that it did. More NCAA tournament coverage: March Madness Day One: Schedule, TV info and latest updates Feinstein: Young takes a final bow on a stage Oklahoma didn’t deserve Brewer: Virginia can’t let one broken wrist stop it from knocking down the door Gonzaga’s experience shows in victory over UNC Greensboro Blackistone: When NCAA teams cheat, black assistant coaches wear the black hat Round-by-round odds, projections for every team in the bracket One crying moment: 15 of the toughest defeats in NCAA tournament history Rep your team, troll your rivals: Dancing mascot GIFs for every NCAA tournament team