Porn star Stormy Daniels's highly anticipated interview about her alleged affair with President Trump airs Sunday on CBS's “60 Minutes.” There are many questions for her to address, but here are five to watch for: The stated timeline matters, as viewers judge whether Daniels is telling the truth. According to a 2011 interview with In Touch magazine, published for the first time in January, Daniels met Trump and had sex with him at the 2006 American Century Celebrity Golf Tournament in Lake Tahoe. Contemporary news accounts put Trump at the event for at least six days from July 11 to 16. Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, told In Touch that she had dinner and sex with Trump one night during the tournament. Former Playboy model Karen McDougal, who also claims to have had an affair with Trump, told CNN on Thursday that she too was with the future president at the golf tournament. “My first thought is how could [Daniels] have been with him when I was with him?” McDougal said. “The only time we weren't together on that particular trip was when I — he was on the golf course golfing. I didn't go, clearly, but I went to every event, every after-thing, parties, daytime things. I was there. That's why I can't understand. “Now, I do remember him saying — he came in one day and said, 'Oh, there are a bunch of porn stars out there. They were wanting pictures of me.' And I'm like, 'Oh, that's funny.' You know, 'That's cute.' Whatever. I do remember him saying that, but I can't imagine when he found the time, except for maybe the day I left.” One extramarital affair is not a great alibi to deny another. But, as McDougal said, there were evening social events during the tournament — a John Mellencamp concert, for example — where Trump might have been seen in public. Daniels's credibility would take a hit if she were to claim to have spent the evening with Trump on a night when other people say he was somewhere else. One thing to remember during Daniels's segment: It was taped before McDougal's Thursday interview, so whatever she says isn't expected to be in response to McDougal's claims on CNN. A lawsuit Daniels filed on March 6 to extract herself from a nondisclosure agreement refers to “certain still images and/or text messages which were authored by or relate to” Trump. The nondisclosure agreement required Daniels to turn over all such documents and destroy her own copies, but her attorney, Michael Avenatti, has suggested that she might have retained evidence of a relationship. “Does she still have photos, images, text messages, documents that verify this claim?” NBC's Savannah Guthrie asked Avenatti on March 7. “That's a question that Ms. Daniels will ultimately have to answer,” Avenatti replied. He added: “I do know the answer, and I'm not at liberty to disclose it this morning.” Avenatti posted another tease on Twitter on Thursday night. “My client was physically threatened to stay silent about what she knew about Donald Trump,” Avenatti said on CNN last week. “The details surrounding that she's going to discuss, I'm sure, on the '60 Minutes' interview.” The details are important for a couple reasons. If Daniels can demonstrate that she was threatened before signing the nondisclosure agreement in October 2016, then she might have a better shot at voiding the contract. And the source of the alleged threat, regardless of timing, will dictate how profusely Trump should be concerned. Are we talking about someone connected to the president or a bunch of online trolls who read the first, thinly-sourced reports of an affair, from 2011, and tried to scare Daniels into silence? Trump attorney Michael Cohen says he used his own funds to pay Daniels to sign the nondisclosure agreement. The White House has declined to say whether Trump reimbursed Cohen — or even knew about the payment. Avenatti said on MSNBC's “Morning Joe” last week, without offering evidence, that Trump did know about the payment. “Fair to say that your belief that the president directed this payment is based on more than a hunch?” Willie Geist asked. “Yes,” Avenatti replied. Will Daniels back up the claim on “60 Minutes”? And where did the $130,000 figure come from? “I think once my client is permitted the opportunity to provide her story that it's going to become apparent as to how that number was arrived at,” Avenatti told Mika Brzezinski on “Morning Joe.” “I agree with you — it's a very low number, and I think it flies in the face of accusations by people that somehow she was trying to shake down then-presidential candidate Trump.” It is not clear why Daniels has chosen to speak publicly or what she hopes to accomplish. In court documents and in the seven-year-old interview with In Touch, she describes a consensual affair. She emphasized on Twitter on Wednesday that she has “never claimed to be a victim” and said she is not being paid to tell her story. It is possible that Cohen's pre-election payment for Daniels's silence broke campaign finance law, but exposing such a violation would seem like an insufficient reason to subject herself to such scrutiny. politics  the-fix Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. The closest thing to a stated motive is in Daniels's lawsuit, which notes that after The Washington Post published the infamous “Access Hollywood” tape in October 2016, “several women came forward publicly to tell their personal stories about their sexual encounters with Mr. Trump. Around this time, Ms. Clifford likewise sought to share details surrounding her relationship and encounters with Mr. Trump with various media outlets.” Daniels ultimately signed the nondisclosure agreement, instead, but the deal did not remain secret. The Wall Street Journal reported its existence in January, prompting In Touch to unearth the 2011 interview it had buried. Assuming Daniels was not a confidential source for the Journal, it could be that she didn't really choose to speak publicly but felt compelled to talk, since a version of her story was in the open, anyway.