There have been few more surreal moments in the Russia investigation — indeed, in the entire Trump era — than the one we just witnessed. The Washington Post's Josh Dawsey broke the news Monday afternoon, in an article chock-full of strange comments, that former Trump campaign aide Sam Nunberg was shunning special counsel Robert S. Mueller III's grand jury subpoena. And then Nunberg took to MSNBC and CNN for some even more unplugged interviews. Here's a brief recap of what Nunberg said and what it means: 1. He thinks Mueller has something to take Trump down Nunberg said he was ignoring the subpoena in part because there was no collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government and that it would consume too much of his time (he repeatedly suggested it would take "80 hours” to go through his emails). But weirdly, he also seemed to say he thinks Mueller has something else on President Trump. When Katy Tur asked, “Do you think that they have something on the president?” Nunberg responded: “I think they may. I think that he may have done something during the election.” In an interview aired later on CNN, Nunberg elaborated cryptically: “I suspect that they suspect something about him. ... The way they asked about his business dealings, the way they asked if you had heard anything even while I was fired, it just made me think that they suspected something about him.” Ultimately, Nunberg told CNN that Trump “may very well have done something during the election with the Russians.” Nunberg seemed to suggest he was just speculating, but also said it would be “inexcusable.” “If he did that, I don't know. You know what, it's inexcusable.” 2. He dared Mueller to arrest him Regarding the idea that Mueller would hold him in contempt for refusing to cooperate, Nunberg told Dawsey: “Let him arrest me. Mr. Mueller should understand I am not going in on Friday.” Then he told Tur: “I think it would be funny if they arrested me.” By the end of the Tur interview, he asked Tur what she thought would happen. “What do you think Mueller's going to do to me?” Tur, while specifying that she wasn't a lawyer, suggested he might be held in contempt. 3. He threatened to rip up the subpoena on live TV Dawsey reported that “Nunberg said he was planning to go on Bloomberg TV and tear up the subpoena.” One might argue that the MSNBC interview was the metaphorical equivalent of that. And even he seemed to recognize that, saying, “By the way, I think my lawyer's going to dump me.” 4. He referred to Bill Clinton's “illegitimate black child” At one point, Nunberg stressed that he and the campaign weren't especially close toward the end and that it didn't take his advice. He even said that if he had been in charge, “we would have Bill Clinton's illegitimate black child there at the second debate.” This refers to a specious rumor that dates back to the 1990s. 5. Bashing Trump politics  the-fix Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. While it might seem like Nunberg is trying to help Trump, he insists that's not actually the case. In fact, he actually told Dawsey that he “hates” Trump and suggested that Putin didn't need Trump. “Putin is too smart to collude with Donald Trump,” he said, adding: “Donald Trump won this election on his own. He campaigned his a-- off. And there is nobody who hates him more than me.” He later told CNN of Trump: “He treated me like crap.”