Murder on the dreamy island of Maui is unusual. The tourist haven sees maybe 5 or 6 killings per year, committed mostly by people who know one another, like the man who slashed his wife’s throat in 2016 or by someone who is overcome by road rage. Though the island is filled with tourists, murder by a complete stranger is rare. But on Sunday, a man was murdered with a machete — had his throat cut. The assailant told police he thought his prey was a “demon,” according to court documents. The series of events that led to the brutal slaying of Eduardo Alejandro Cerezo, 35, in a Macy’s restroom began with a single look, court documents said. Cerezo and a friend had just boarded a bus headed for Queen Ka’ahumanu Center, a shopping mall not far from the Kahului Airport, when Cerezo noticed another passenger staring at him, documents said. Upset by the staring, Cerezo allegedly spent the bus ride taunting the passenger, Kumulipo Sylva, until they reached the mall. When Cerezo and his friend got off the bus, Sylva allegedly challenged him to a fight. But, Cerezo turned him down and walked away, according to documents. Sylva followed the pair into the mall. He was on a mission. Documents allege he tracked them to a restroom near the Macy’s men’s department. For his second meeting with Cerezo, Sylva was armed with more than a look. In his hand was a black machete. Court documents said Sylva allegedly told Cerezo, “I was sent to end you.” Witnesses told police Cerezo begged for his life, but his pleas fell on deaf ears, Hawaii News Now reported. According to documents, Sylva allegedly said “I’ve been sending demons to the moon,” and then proceeded to swing the machete at Cerezo, cutting his throat. According to documents, Sylva stowed the bloody machete in a backpack, turned to a witness, and allegedly said, “believe it or not, it was a demon.” Cerezo was taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center and pronounced dead at around 3:30 p.m., documents said, less than two hours after first meeting Sylva’s gaze on the bus. Sylva, meanwhile, was on the lam. A group of people playing disc golf — a game that involves throwing a frisbee-like object at a target — near the mall, saw Sylva and alerted police, Hawaii News Now reported. Sylva ran and the group gave chase, eventually cornering him in a community park, according to Hawaii News Now. “We all started converging on him,” Frank Wilkerson, a member of the group told Hawaii News Now, adding that Sylva said “something about the devil being on the moon or something bizarre like that.” Police arrived shortly after and arrested Sylva, court documents said. While in custody, police say Sylva told them he stabbed Cerezo “because he was a demon,” documents said. He also told them he had stashed the machete in some brush alongside the community park’s tennis courts. Sylva was charged with second-degree murder and is being held on $500,000 bail. He made his first court appearance Tuesday via video feed, according to Maui Now, and a preliminary hearing has been set for Thursday, March 22.