Two people were killed Friday in a shooting at a Central Michigan University dormitory, an incident that prompted school authorities to tell students to seek shelter. Neither victim was a student, authorities said. “Central Michigan University police confirm two individuals were fatally shot at Campbell Hall on campus this morning,” the university said on its website. “The deceased are not students, and police believe the situation started from a domestic situation.” There were no other injuries, according to the school’s website. The campus remained on lockdown after the shooting. Officials have identified a man named James Eric Davis Jr. as a suspect in the fatal incident. “The university responded quickly,” university spokeswoman Sherry Knight​ said at a press conference Friday. “We had the campus on lockdown. No students, faculty or staff have been injured.” Lt. Larry Klaus, of the Central Michigan University Police Department, asked members of the community to call 911 if they spot Davis, who was seen running away shortly after the shooting. “At the current time, this is still an active event,” he said. “Police agencies are actively trying to locate the individual.” Campus police came into contact with “the involved individual” the night before the shooting, Klaus said. On Thursday night, that individual was taken to a hospital, Klaus said, because of what officers thought might be a drug-related incident. “An overdose or a bad reaction to drugs,” said Klaus, who said the man was released to hospital staff. Campbell Hall is a dormitory, according to the school’s website. It consists of suites for four students, with single bedrooms. Central Michigan University is in Mount Pleasant, Mich., a city about 85 miles from Grand Rapids and 155 miles from Detroit. A message posted to the city’s website Friday morning stated that the suspect was considered armed and dangerous, and had not been caught. Local police were assisting campus authorities. “Please remain aware of your surroundings and call 911 to report suspicious activity,” the post stated. “All city buildings are currently locked down and not accessible to the general public.” The shooting happened on the eve of spring break. An alert from the university told parents and others who were coming to pick up students that visitors should remain off campus until further notice. Instead, families were directed to the Comfort Inn, at 2424 S. Mission St., in Mount Pleasant. The school said university staff members would be there to support the families. local  grade-point Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Grade Point newsletter News and issues affecting higher education. Please provide a valid email address. Gov. Rick Snyder (R) said on Twitter that he was in contact with state police and local authorities as they investigated the matter. “The priority right now is the safety of those still on campus and I thank all first responders involved for their swift action,” the governor’s tweet said. This is a developing news story and has been updated.