Today’s weather was pretty enjoyable considering what we’ve had to work with over the past few weeks. Sure, a pesky wind from the north kept a bit of a chill in the air, but it’s hard to beat a sunny weekend day at any point in the year. We stay clear and quite dry (beware of excessive static electricity) through tonight before we begin a transition into a stormy pattern Monday. Listen to the latest forecast:  Get our daily forecasts on your Amazon Alexa device. Click here to find out how. Through tonight: Mostly clear skies persist through the rest of the evening, before some high clouds begin to work their way into the region overnight. Because of those clouds, temperatures won’t fall off as much as they have over the past two nights. Low temperatures should range from 32 to 36 degrees, with a light northwest wind at 5 mph. View the current weather conditions at The Washington Post. Tomorrow (Monday): Clouds continue to build through the morning hours, leaving us with overcast skies by midday. Temperatures will be slow to rise during the daytime hours, with a wind from the east/northeast keeping things on the cool side. Most of us will see afternoon highs in the upper 40s to about 50 degrees. A slight chance of scattered showers will be possible in the late afternoon, especially south of the city. Steadier rain moves in tomorrow night and should stick with us through much of the overnight period. Some mixing is possible north and west of the city. Lows will range from 31 to 35 degrees. See Brian Jackson’s forecast through the week. And if you haven’t already, join us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter and Instagram. For related traffic news, check out Gridlock. Does D.C. reach 60 degrees in March? In case you hadn’t noticed, Reagan National Airport (DCA) has failed to reach the 60-degree mark this month, with the “warmest” daily high of 59 occurring way back on March 1. That’s pretty impressive for March around these parts. And while March ended up cooler than February last year, we at least had 11 days where the daily high was 60 degrees or higher, including six days of 70 degrees or higher temperatures. No such luck this year, and the forecast doesn’t look promising, either. The current forecast keeps DCA below the 60-degree mark through the middle of next week. If this verifies, DCA and, by association, D.C. itself, will have failed to reach 60 degrees through the first 28 days of March. How impressive is that? It would be good enough for second place on the coolest maximum daily temperature at DCA since records began. Want our 5 a.m. forecast delivered to your email inbox? Subscribe here.