Vincent Childs was walking to a friend’s house in the Congress Heights neighborhood of Southeast Washington early Friday and was on a sidewalk when police said a sport-utility vehicle came barreling toward him. The driver of the 2006 Mercury Mountaineer, who police said was speeding and impaired by alcohol, had jumped a curb on Wheeler Road 100 feet earlier, according to an arrest affidavit filed in court. Police said the SUV struck the 42-year-old avid Redskins fan who liked to cook, killing him at the scene of the 2:30 a.m. crash in the 3200 block of Wheeler Road SE, near Alabama Avenue. Police said the vehicle then struck two trees hard enough to uproot them. The driver tried to flee, police said, but a bystander stopped him and held him until he was placed under arrest. Roger Hector Hamilton, 37, of New Carrollton, Md., was charged with involuntary manslaughter and driving under the influence of alcohol. A D.C. Superior Court judge on Friday ordered him detained until a hearing Tuesday. His attorney did not respond for comment. Police did not estimate how fast the SUV was traveling, but did say they believe it was far greater than the posted 25 mph speed limit. The crash occurred on a residential street that was lit with overhead street lamps, and it was before the wind storm hit the region. Police reported the street was dry and the air was clear. [Police charge Maryland man with DUI, involuntary manslaughter in death of pedestrian] The arrest affidavit says that the suspect failed a sobriety test and that a breath test measured his blood alcohol content at 0.12, above the District’s legal limit of 0.08. On Friday, the victim’s aunt, Elaine Martin, and his mother, Laverne Childs, 71, attended the brief court hearing, called an initial appearance, for the suspect. “It was very difficult,” Laverne Childs said later. “He was a well-loved person,” she said of her son. “Everybody who knew him loved him.” Vincent Childs of Southeast was not married and had a daughter, who is now 21 and works as a security guard. He had in the past worked in maintenance. “He came to see me almost every day,” said Laverne Childs, who lives in Southeast. “There’s nothing I can say. I’m hurting. That’s it. I lost my only child.” Martin said Vincent Childs was a fervent follower of the Washington Redskins, and he often could be seen wearing the red-and-gold jersey. He talked about the team every chance he could get. Childs also liked to cook, particularly fried chicken and potatoes, although his interest in food depended on how well the hometown football team fared on the field. “When they lost, he was just sad,” said a neighbor, Alicia Ginyard Bates, 62, who knew him for 17 years. “He would say they could’ve won the game if they did this or that.” But, Bates said, “When they won, he was very, very happy. He did more cooking.”