The fourth week has passed in John Wall’s rehabilitation and the Washington Wizards’ all-star guard is set to return to the hardwood for low-intensity shooting. “On the court soon,” Wizards Coach Scott Brooks said before Friday night’s game regarding Wall’s progress. “Probably today or tomorrow [Saturday]. It’s very light shooting.” [Wizards break down late, fall to East-leading Raptors] Wall has missed 15 games after having arthroscopic debridement, a minor surgery performed on his left knee, on Jan. 31. Since the procedure, Wall has run on an anti-gravity treadmill and pedaled on an elliptical bike, according to Brooks. However, the imminent shooting workouts will mark the first time that Wall will get on the court. “He’s progressing,” Brooks said, then referenced Wall’s recovery schedule. “I don’t know when. The timeline said six to eight [weeks], you never know. That’s smart people guessing, an educated guess. Hopefully it’s some time in between that.” Over the all-star break, Wall expressed at the time that he could not estimate his return date. “I really don’t know because I’m just doing everything the doctors are telling me,” Wall said Feb. 17. “I haven’t really tried to get back on the court yet so, just doing the little things. And I haven’t started running yet. So whenever I get to that point I can kind of start grasping stuff and understanding what level I’m at but right now it’s between six to eight weeks. It might be longer but I don’t know. I haven’t got to that point.” More on the Wizards: Quit debating: The Wizards need John Wall for the playoffs sports  wizards-insider Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. Kevin Durant isn’t buying that the Wizards are better without John Wall The Wizards are better when Kelly Oubre Jr. and his personality are on display D.C. Sports Bog: Wizards raise season ticket prices for fifth straight year