President Trump announced Thursday that he would impose a 25 percent tariff on steel imports and a 10 percent tariff on aluminum imports — apparently launching a trade war. Since then, the White House has repeatedly suggested it's possible things could change. But Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross's evasiveness on this topic during an interview Sunday was particularly remarkable. During an interview with “Meet the Press” host Chuck Todd, Ross was pressed over and over on whether this was a done deal. And he repeatedly suggested it was subject to the whims of the president — that nothing was done until Trump put pen to paper. Here's the exchange (emphases added): TODD: So this is going to happen this week for sure? The way he said it — 25 percent, 10 percent? ROSS: Whatever his final decision is is what will happen. TODD: Meaning this isn't a done deal. ROSS: I didn't say that. I just said what he has said, he has said. If he says something different, it'll be something different. I have no reason to think he's going to change. TODD: [Laughter] What does this mean? You just said, “Well, he may say this, and he may say that.” ROSS: No, I didn't say that. I said he is the one who makes the decision. He has made a decision at this point — 25 and 10. If he, for some reason, should change his mind, then it'll change. TODD: Are you — ROSS: I have no reason to believe he's going to change his mind. And then later: TODD: Will you say definitively that this is going to happen this week? ROSS: The president has announced that this will happen this week. I have no reason to think otherwise. Uh, apparently you do, though. Imagine any other president making such an announcement and then having his own Commerce secretary suggest it wasn't totally final. Trump was asked Thursday what the tariffs would be, and he said it would be "25 percent for steel. It will be 10 percent for aluminum. And it will be for a long period of time.” Then he repeated: “Twenty-five for steel, and 10 for aluminum. It’s being written now.” There's generally no reason to suggest such things could change, because the president wouldn't have said that without making sure it was final. politics  the-fix Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. But apparently, by the administration's own admission, Trump either made the announcement before it was ready or is just too inconsistent to take at his word. Before Ross's interview, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders twice suggested Trump's tariff announcement might change. She said shortly after the announcement of the numbers, “I think that's the intent.” Then on Friday, she said, when asked whether the numbers could change, “Never say never.” This is exactly the kind of whimsicality and flip-flop-iness that has prevented Trump from landing the immigration deal he craved and looks to be imperiling the gun debate. Basically nothing Trump says can be taken at face value anymore, nor does what he actually means when he says it have much of a shelf life. It's gotten to the point where even his aides can't say for certain that he'll do what he said he would — on issues as hugely important as launching a trade war that tanked the stock market and alienated countries across the world. I've said it before, and I'll say it again: Whatever you think of the policy aims, that's a hell of a way to do business.