Friday’s powerful winds caused the derailment part of a freight train on a bridge in Maryland, authorities confirmed on Tuesday. The derailment sent four cars plunging about 80 feet into the Susquehanna River in the northern part of the state. The derailment of the six freight cars on the bridge near Havre de Grace was one of several unusual events to occur during the fierce storm. The winds caused a death in Maryland and at least two in Virginia. Trees toppled by the score and some of the 500,000 utility customers who lost power Friday remained without electricity Tuesday. Damage was so great that National Park Service officials said they closed Prince William Forest Park immediately, and expected it to remain closed for two to three weeks. The park said damage was significantly greater than in other recent storms, including two hurricanes and the derecho of 2012. Carl Becker said Tuesday that BGE had yet to restore service to his home in the Burtonsville,Md. area. He said he and his wife had been staying at a hotel. In Baltimore County, a 77-year-old woman was killed in her yard by a falling tree branch. A tree fell onto a truck in James City County, Va., fatally injuring a passenger, said Steve Rubino, deputy chief of the county police. Also killed in Virginia was a six-year-old boy who was struck by a falling tree while asleep in his home in Chesterfield County, the police there said. The boy was identified by Chesterfield police as Anthony Hamilton. Police said he was pulled out and taken to a hospital where he died. Among the trees felled were one that was linked to George Washington, and another to Andrew Jackson. local   Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Local Headlines newsletter Daily headlines about the Washington region. Please provide a valid email address. In the railroad incident, a CSX spokeswoman said “six cars on a CSX train were derailed due to extreme wind gusts last Friday evening in Cecil County, MD.” Photographs indicated that the derailment occurred at a point where the bridge is about 80 to 100 feet above the Susquehanna River. Of the four cars that fell into the water two remained there Tuesday, a CSX spokeswoman said. She said efforts to get them out were continuing. No injuries were reported in the derailment. 