PITTSBURGH — Virginia Tech had bullied Alabama guard Collin Sexton for much of Thursday’s East Region first-round game, forcing the hottest player in college basketball to offer visible demonstrations of frustration. He flailed his arms. He begged for foul calls. He held his stomach after a shot to the gut on a screen. “He just knocked the wind out of me,” Sexton said later, paying no mind to a tooth that had been loosened by another collision. He had endured the Hokies’ pack-the-lane defense in Alabama’s 86-83 win and finished with 14 of his 25 points in the final 6:48, including a crucial turnaround jumper with 1:58 remaining that gave the Crimson Tide a much-needed cushion to hold on against the Hokies. “In the second half, it just turned downhill too much,” said Virginia Tech Coach Buzz Williams of Sexton and the offense of the Crimson Tide, who were the first team to score more than 84 points on the Hokies since early February. The Hokies had done enough on the offensive end to win their first NCAA tournament game since 2007. They shot 56 percent from the field, received a combined 36 points from their backcourt, hit nine three-pointers and found countless transition opportunities by forcing 17 Alabama turnovers. [Buffalo pulls off a monster bracket buster: Updated NCAA round-by-round odds] But defense became this team’s identity late in the season, and it was part of their downfall at PPG Paints Arena. Virginia Tech simply didn’t have an answer down the stretch for Sexton or his ability to facilitate. He finished with six assists and his patience helped set up a number of opportunities for teammates, including John Petty (20 points). Alabama, which shot 60 percent from the field, will meet No. 1 seed Villanova on Saturday. The Wildcats easily handled No. 16 seed Radford earlier Thursday. “We had a lot of mental mistakes that we could’ve controlled. They penetrated in too deep, got too many layups. That’s a credit to them and the kind of offense they are,” said Virginia Tech guard Justin Bibbs, who finished with 17 points but appeared frustrated by his team’s inability to stop the Crimson Tide down the stretch. Williams had tinkered with his team’s defensive approach after giving up 84 points to Miami in a loss Feb. 3, and it paid off with low-scoring wins over Clemson, Virginia and Duke over the final month of the season. But Williams also knew Sexton, who entered Thursday’s game averaging 25.5 points on 52 percent shooting over his previous four games, could stretch that defense like few other players. The Hokies, making their first back-to-back trip to the tournament since the 1985-86 season, initially looked more than prepared, throwing multiple players at Sexton from the outset. It helped that Sexton was erratic early — over one 90-second stretch, he committed two offensive fouls on push-offs, including a shove to Virginia Tech guard Justin Robinson (19 points) that sent Sexton to bench with 12:22 remaining before halftime. [Brewer: Virginia can’t let one broken wrist stop it from knocking down the door] Yet even as Sexton went 1-for-4 from the field in the first half for just three points, he did record four assists, including a dump-off pass to Petty for a three-pointer that beat the buzzer and cut Virginia Tech’s lead at the break to 43-41. Sexton, who finished 7-for-14 from the field but just 1-for-5 from three-point range with five turnovers, found another gear late. He muscled his way into the lane for a layup, and then gave Alabama a 68-64 lead with 6:48 left with a pair of free throws. Several minutes later, he knocked down a jumper that bricked off the back of the iron to extend the lead to six. “Second half, coach [Avery Johnson] just told me, ‘If a I got a shot, don’t worry about missing it, just shoot it,’ ” Sexton said. Even as Virginia Tech pulled back within two on a layup by Nickeil Alexander-Walker, even as it swarmed Sexton at every turn in the final minutes, its defense couldn’t come up with the critical stops that had been integral to its late-season run. Sexton helped set up a dunk for Donta Hall, then assisted on another three-pointer by Petty on the next possession. And it seemed as if he was rewarded with an isolation on the left perimeter with just over two minutes remaining, his team clinging to a five-point lead. He knocked down a turnaround jumper as Williams just shook his head on the sideline. Virginia Tech would get one final chance with less than a minute left, trailing 78-74, as Robinson came up with a steal out of a timeout. But he was called for a charge on a drive to basket, and Williams was slapped with a technical for protesting the call. Sexton went to the free throw line, made one of two, then flashed a smile at a section of Crimson Tide fans, as if he was telling them that everything would be okay. For Williams and the Hokies, it wasn’t. His players will be able to dote on making consecutive NCAA tournament appearances for just the third time in program history, but they were not able to put the big picture in perspective as Thursday night turned to early Friday morning. “The higher you go, the altitude changes. It’s harder to breath,” Williams said of playing in the tournament. “We need to continue to get reps at that.” Jalen Brunson scored 16 points, and the top-seeded Wildcats hit 14 three-pointers in an 87-61 romp over the No. 16 Highlanders in Pittsburgh. The Highlanders (23-13) posed no threat at becoming the first 16 seed to knock off a No. 1 in the tournament. Villanova (31-4) played to near-perfection for the first 30 minutes, and everyone played a role. Mikal Bridges had 13 points, Eric Paschall scored 11, and Omari Spellman had 10 points and seven rebounds. Radford, out of rural southwestern Virginia, must have felt as if it were playing against ace pop-a-shot players. Villanova led 69-37 with 11:45 left and was shooting 75 percent (25 for 34) overall and 60 percent (12 for 20) from three-point range. At one point, Brunson had 12 points on 5-for-6 shooting. Radford? Just 10 points on 4 for 20 from the floor. Villanova started the game shooting 13 of 16. For those who struggle with math, that’s a crisp 81 percent. Phil Booth, Bridges, Brunson and Donte DiVincenzo all hit three-pointers in succession to blow open the game. “They are a No. 1 seed for a reason. But this team right here is special,” Radford’s Christian Bradford said. “We’re a championship team for a reason. We never thought in our mind that we couldn’t come back.” — Associated Press    More college basketball: Arizona is rocked by Buffalo in NCAA tournament’s biggest Day 1 upset For Michael Porter Jr. and Mohamed Bamba, mock drafts are part of March Madness Mamadi Diakite will get a bigger shot for Virginia in De’Andre Hunter’s absence Blackistone: When NCAA teams cheat, black assistant coaches wear the black hat Gonzaga’s experience shows in victory over UNC-Greensboro Round-by-round odds, projections for every team in the bracket One crying moment: 15 of the toughest defeats in NCAA tournament history Brewer: March Madness is the NCAA’s greatest hypocrisy and its best hope of salvation Rep your team, troll your rivals: Dancing mascot GIFs for every NCAA tournament team 