Having traded starting quarterback Tyrod Taylor to the Browns last week, the Bills need a replacement. On Monday, Buffalo set itself up to make a major move in the draft for that very player after trading its starting left tackle to the Bengals. According to multiple reports, the Bills have agreed to send Cordy Glenn to Cincinnati in exchange for a swap of first-round picks, moving them up to 12th from 21st, plus a fifth-round pick (158th overall) for the Bengals’ sixth-round selection (187th). That gives the Bills, who also have two picks in each of the second and third rounds, plenty of ammunition to trade up even higher in a draft expected to see a quartet of highly regarded quarterback prospects go very early. According to the trade-value chart for draft picks devised by former Cowboys coach Jimmy Johnson and still referred to by some NFL teams, Buffalo acquired about 400 points in value in its move up the first round, also indicating that Glenn was valued by Cincinnati as roughly equivalent to a mid-second round pick. If the Bills were to package the 12th pick with the 22nd overall pick they still possess, plus, say, one of their third-rounders, they might be able to entice the Colts to part with their 3rd overall pick. That would enable the Bills, if they were more or less equally enamored of any three from USC’s Sam Darnold, UCLA’s Josh Rosen, Wyoming’s Josh Allen and Oklahoma’s Baker Mayfield, to wait to see which one of their preferred targets fell to them. A mock draft Monday at CBS Sports had Buffalo using its two first-rounders this year and the one it holds in the 2019 draft to move up to the Giants’ No. 2 spot for Darnold. That mock had those four quarterback prospects going in the first six picks, with two more signal-callers, Louisville’s Lamar Jackson and Oklahoma State’s Mason Rudolph, selected later in the first round. ESPN’s Adam Schefter said on the network Monday that the Bills’ trade “sent shock waves through the NFL,” with the team widely viewed as being “on the prowl for a quarterback.” Schefter added that he didn’t think Buffalo “was done climbing” in the draft.  The acquisition of the 28-year-old Glenn, meanwhile, helps the Bengals solidify what was a major weakness last season, after the team allowed longtime left tackle Andrew Whitworth to depart in free agency. The only major issue with Glenn, who was a second-round pick in 2012, has been his ability to stay healthy — he missed 11 starts last season and five more in 2016 with foot, ankle and back injuries. A 2017 second-rounder, Dion Dawkins, impressed in Glenn’s absence last year and he is expected to become Buffalo’s new left tackle. The team will also save $4.85 million against the 2018 salary cap by trading Glenn, although he will still count for $9.6 million in dead money. The Bills have a young quarterback already on the roster in Nathan Peterman, a 2017 fifth-round pick who briefly passed Taylor on the depth chart last season. However, Peterman’s starting debut was an abject disaster, thanks to five interceptions in the first half against the Chargers before being benched. He finished the season with a dismal passer rating of 38.4 in limited playing time. Read more from The Post: O.J. Simpson offers ‘hypothetical’ account of double murder in 2006 Fox interview sports  early-lead Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. Tom Brady shows just how badly he cut his hand. (Warning: pretty badly.) The top free agent needs for every NFL team The perfect bracket to win your March Madness pool