A few days ago, President Trump's company announced that it had kept a promise. The Trump Organization said it had donated all of the “foreign profits” from its hotels to the U.S. Treasury. But there was a catch. The amount of the donation was a secret. “We have nothing further to share at this time,” Trump Organization spokeswoman Amanda Miller said. That secrecy seemed to undermine the point of the donation — which was to reassure Americans that foreign states weren't using Trump's businesses to buy the president's favor. The original promise had been made by Trump's private lawyers, just before he took office: “To put to rest any concerns, however, the President-Elect is announcing he will donate all profits from foreign governments’ patronage of his hotels and similar businesses during his presidential term to the U.S. Treasury.” Voters still don't know how much profit Trump's company made from doing business with foreign states. Or, for that matter, which states made those purchases. We're working to find those answers. In the meantime, we'd like to hear your guesses about what the actual number might be. How much profit do you think the Trump Organization made from its business dealings with foreign governments? You can submit those guesses here: Click this link to enter your guess. [ Got questions about President Trump's businesses and conflicts of interest? Start here, with our FAQ. ] politics  post-politics Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. When the actual amount of the donation is revealed, the winning guess(es) will be rewarded with Twitter praise and eternal Internet bragging rights. We're playing “Price Is Right” rules here: The winning guess is the one that comes closest to the real number without going over. Before you guess, you might want to read this excellent Bloomberg News story from last year, which laid out the Trump Organization's methodology for defining “foreign” and “profit,” and calculating the amount of the donation. This reporter entered the first guess: $15,000.