Embattled former Senate candidate Roy Moore is making a public plea for help to pay the legal fees he faces defending himself from a lawsuit brought by an Alabama woman who says he touched her sexually when she was 14 years old. In a statement posted on his Senate campaign’s Facebook page, the Republican former judge made the ask in a grievance-filled note, saying that he faced a “vicious attack from lawyers in Washington D.C. and San Francisco who have hired one of the biggest firms in Birmingham Alabama to bring another legal action against me.” “My resources have been depleted and I have struggled to make ends meet,” Moore wrote, saying that his legal fees could exceed $100,000. “I have had to establish a legal defense fund, anything you give will be appreciated.” Leigh Corfman filed a defamation lawsuit against Moore in January, part of an emerging legal strategy of litigating sexual misconduct claims through civil lawsuits when the statute of limitations has expired for criminal charges. In November, Corfman told The Washington Post that Moore took her to his house, undressed her and touched her sexually when he was a 32-year-old district attorney in 1979, and she was 14. The accusations shook up the Senate race in the deep-red state, and helped catapult it to wide national attention. Moore denied the accusations, maintaining that he was the victim of a conspiracy by liberal groups, mainstream media organizations and others. Corfman claims some of the statements he made defamed her. [ ‘How is my daughter a pervert?’: Alabama dad’s plain-spoken rebuke of Roy Moore strikes a nerve ] These statements include calling Corfman’s accusations “politically motivated,” “completely false” and “malicious.” He also told Fox News host Sean Hannity that he had never met Corfman. Corfman is not seeking financial compensation in the case beyond its legal costs, her lawyer has said. Instead, she is asking for a judgment, an apology from Moore and a ban to ensure he doesn’t publicly attack her again. Moore, who refused to concede his loss to his Democratic opponent Doug Jones, continued his campaign argument on Thursday. “The liberal media, in association with some who want to destroy our Country,” he wrote, “… are doing everything they can to stop me. “Gays, lesbians, and transgenders have joined forces with those who believe in abortion, sodomy, and destruction of all that we hold dear. Unless we stand together we will lose our Country,” he continued. He said that “Christians can no longer afford to remain silent in these ‘perilous’ times,” taking aim at “covetous,” “unthankful,” “unholy” and “incontinent” “lovers of pleasure.” “When I stood to bring these values and truths to Washington D. C. I was forced to fight the Washington establishment, the Republican Party, the Democrat Party, the ultra-liberal media and people such as George Soros, Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, and many others who fear the truth,” he wrote. “Please help me fight this battle for the heart and soul of this Nation. Your financial contribution to my legal defense fund is crucial.” A website he had set up to fundraise said he had secured about $32,000 of a $250,000 goal. Emails sent to supporters show he has been soliciting donations since at least January. A list included on the donation site, presumably meant to include organizations he was fighting against, included Soros, the frequent target of conservative conspiracy theories; lawyer Gloria Allred, who represents a woman who accused Moore of groping her when she was 16 years old; the Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC aligned with Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.); and The Washington Post. Beth Reinhard contributed to this story. Read more: politics  politics Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. ‘The Snake’: How Trump appropriated a radical black singer’s lyrics for immigration fearmongering Trump said he would charge a gunman. Here’s what he’s actually done in the face of danger. Utah’s Republican-controlled House of Representatives made a rap video. Send help.