This column discusses the Wes Anderson film “Isle of Dogs.” Wes Anderson’s “Isle of Dogs,” which arrived in theaters last weekend, is one of the movies I’ve seen so far in 2018 that has made me the happiest. The stop-motion animated film follows 12-year-old Atari (voiced by Koyu Rankin) as he attempts to rescue his dog Spots (Liev Schreiber) after Atari’s uncle, Mayor Kobayashi (Kunichi Nomura), exiles all canines from the futuristic Japanese Megasaki City to the bluntly named Trash Island. It is a scruffy tale of persistence, love and discovery of the best parts of yourself. But “Isle of Dogs” is also the movie I’ve seen thus far this year which I most frequently thought might take a beating online — in this case, over Anderson’s invocations of Japanese culture. As my colleague Michael Cavna wrote, it says something that audiences immediately knew “Isle of Dogs” would spark a vigorous debate. That wasn’t the case when Sofia Coppola’s Westerners-adrift-in-Japan film “Lost in Translation” was released in 2003, and it proves we’ve undergone a major shift in the way we talk about cultural sensitivity and cultural appropriation in art. But “Isle of Dogs” shows us just how complicated the nuances of these debates can be. “Isle of Dogs” is no “Breakfast at Tiffany’s,” a movie that’s jarringly marred by Mickey Rooney’s grotesque masquerading as Holly Golightly’s (Audrey Hepburn) Japanese landlord, I.Y. Yunioshi. Nor is it “Sixteen Candles,” in which director John Hughes cast Gedde Watanabe, a Japanese American actor, as a Chinese exchange student, Long Duk Dong, and defined the character through broken English and goofy behavior. Those cases are easy to condemn, but it is not the easy cases that define a principle. The questions raised by “Isle of Dogs” don’t have obvious answers. Does Anderson’s decision to neither subtitle nor translate much of the Japanese dialogue force the audience to pay closer attention to those characters’ expressions and tones of voice, to try to understand them even without the most immediate tool to help? Or does the choice isolate Japanese-speaking characters from an English-speaking audience, rendering those characters less relatable and less comprehensible than a pack of dogs? Is Tracy Walker (Greta Gerwig), an exchange student from Cincinnati who investigates Mayor Kobayashi’s corruption, another white savior? Or is she a co-protagonist who could not have saved the day on her own (and whose appreciation for Japan and Japanese culture parallels that of the director who created her)? Is it unseemly cultural thievery to invent a samurai legend? Or are the tenets of bushido as much a story form as those of European chivalry, available to be toyed with by any attentive storyteller who wants to try? I pose these questions, not in an attempt to avoid staking a position on whether “Isle of Dogs” constitutes an act of cultural appropriation, but because I can see the cases both for appreciating it and for criticizing it. At this point, there’s a fairly clear consensus that white people shouldn’t be cast as characters who are meant to be of other races, and that defining nonwhite characters by obvious stereotypes and obvious stereotypes alone is both objectionable and proof of artistic laziness. There is less agreement about what makes a person sufficiently knowledgeable about and sensitive to the concerns of a community that’s not their own to put it into art, or about the line between appreciation and fetishization of another culture. (Not to mention the fact that members of a particular community may have wildly diverging opinions about these issues, raising thorny questions about who has standing to make these judgments.) The answer to these quandaries may depend a great deal on how a person feels about the work under dispute. I’m probably inclined to judge “Isle of Dogs” more favorably than viewers who didn’t feel much of a connection to Atari, whose hurt, rage and determination seemed to me the core of the movie. Cultural appropriation in these more complicated cases is a lot like Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart’s definition of pornography: “I know it when I see it.” Of course, many “I”s will view every work of art. What they see will depend on who they are and what they bring with them to the theater.