Saturday’s March for Our Lives was inspiring. Seeing over a million people march around the country to urge our elected representatives to take action on the scourge of gun violence gave me a new sense of optimism, particularly because so many leaders and organizers were teenagers. As I watched the marchers Saturday, I thought of Shirley Atkins, a woman I’d met while working as a homicide prosecutor in Virginia. Her son, Johnell Greene, was shot and killed in 2006 by a drug dealer, in retaliation for an apparent theft of crack cocaine. Atkins was in the front row of the courtroom every day during the trial of her son’s murderer. When the jury entered its guilty verdict, she cried. I tried to comfort her, telling her that I knew the verdict wouldn’t bring back her son. She told me she hadn’t started to cry because of her son’s loss, but rather because, at last, someone had cared enough about her family to pursue the case and deliver at least a measure of justice. Sadly, what was true then remains true now — not all gun violence evokes the same level of sympathy and outrage as episodes like Parkland. But it should. Gun violence is a scourge we should be trying to prevent no matter where, and to whom, it happens. Atkins’s tears reflected a reality of which I was keenly aware during the time that I was an assistant U.S. attorney in the District: In a 1998 triple homicide that I tried, two bystanders were killed alongside the intended target of a shooting. In a 2003 case that I tried involving the infamous “Murder Inc.” gang, an employee of an auto-repair shop was shot and killed after being mistaken for the shop’s owner, the intended target. Victims like Greene, a young, African American man from a working-class neighborhood, or the auto repairman, a Guatemalan immigrant, often don’t generate the same amount of attention. Marchers seldom take to the streets to call for action on the problem of gun violence in response to gun deaths such as theirs. When I was a D.C. prosecutor, persistent violence was met largely with apathy by most people outside of the District — and by many in it. At the time I worked as an AUSA, the system was full of real tragedy, but murders of similarly situated victims were frequently covered in one or two stories in the Metro section of The Washington Post. They didn’t result in televised town hall events, or choreographed, nationwide demonstrations designed to prod members of Congress to react. As prosecutors, we took every case we had seriously, but I know there were many that never made it to our desks. No one doubted the horror of these crimes, but a lot of Washingtonians went about their lives heedless to the pain caused by violence in our city. [I’m a superintendent. My school district decided to arm teachers.] Violence in Washington has decreased from the levels we saw years ago. In 2017, there were 116 homicides in Washington. Twenty years before, in 1997, there were 301 murders, down from a high of 482 in 1991. There are a number of reasons for the gradual decline in violent crime, but the problem hasn’t disappeared. People are still shot and killed in the District with disturbing frequency: In 2015, a young, black journalist, Charnice Milton, was shot and killed in Southeast D.C. on her way home from covering a community meeting. In 2016, The Post reported on one organizer’s effort to bring attention to 143 unresolved Washington homicides, mostly involving black male victims. I give the Parkland students and other young activists credit for calling attention to all gun deaths, regardless of who gets killed and where they’re from. In their powerful speeches and interviews, they’ve taken pains to explain that their generation gets it, even if this unfair, unjust disparity has long been glossed over by adults. At the D.C. march, student Edna Chavez said, “I have lived in South L.A. my entire life and have lost many loved ones to gun violence,” adding, “This is normal, normal to the point where I learned to duck from gun bullets before I learned how to read.” David Hogg, a student at Parkland’s Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and one of the central organizers of the march, pointed out in a Twitter Q&A that “There is a lot of racial disparity in the way that this [shooting] is covered.” “If this happened in a place of a lower socioeconomic status or … a black community,” he said, “I don’t think the media would cover it the same.” He’s right. And the disparity he correctly describes is wrong. If we only address gun violence when it affects certain communities, we won’t get closer to a solution. We should do all we can to bring justice to those affected by gun violence, wherever they live. We should do more to research the causes of this persistent problem and implement policies designed to prevent gun deaths, including sensible gun-control laws. We should combat this scourge in every community. Yes, we should, and do, care a lot about the Parkland shooting. And we must care about gun violence wherever and whenever it occurs.