PITTSBURGH — Jay Wright never lets anyone see him sweat . . . literally. It isn’t just that he is annually selected as college basketball’s best-dressed coach. It isn’t even that he may be the only big-time hoops coach who readily admits that he puts cologne on before tipoff. It isn’t even that his looks and personality are the polar opposite of his mentor, Rollie Massimino, who led Villanova to the national title in 1985. Massimino’s suits were every bit as expensive as Wright’s. But he was Danny DeVito on the bench, a nonstop whirling dervish who spent a lot of the game inbounds, barking at his team, at the officials and at anyone who happened to wander into his sightline. Wright is Bond, James Bond. When his team gets upset in the NCAA tournament, he congratulates the winners, shakes his head and begins preparing for next season. When his team wins the national championship on one of the most dramatic buzzer-beaters in history, he makes certain the shot counts, consoles the losers and — maybe a week or two later than usual — begins preparing for next season. “The way I’ve come to look at it is the NCAA tournament is just that — a tournament,” he said Thursday night after his Wildcats, the No. 1 seed in the East Region, had easily beaten Radford, 87-61. “I know our fans don’t look at it that way; I know that’s not the way all of us are judged from outside. “But when I sit down with my staff at the end of the season, I want to know how did we play from start to finish? How did we do in the Big East regular season? How hard did our guys play night in and night out? How hard did they practice? How close did we get them to their potential? That’s how I analyze a season. “That doesn’t mean we’re not giving everything we have in this tournament. We are. But we all know things happen. You have a bad night; someone else has a good night. I was on the other end of it at Hofstra, when we were the low seed (in 2000 and 2001) and all the pressure was on the high seed. I know the feeling on both sides of it, winning and losing.” [March Madness live: Latest updates from Day 2 of the NCAA tournament] It is almost difficult to believe that Wright is in his 17th season as Villanova’s coach. He’s 56, but looks 40 with only a few flecks of gray in his dark hair — as opposed to Massimino who was 50 when he won his championship but looked, well, older. Wright is Villanova’s winningest coach ever, with 417 victories, surpassing the record Al Severance set between 1936 and 1961. Villanova is 31-4, the fourth straight season the Wildcats have won at least 30 games. They were 29-5 five seasons ago. Kris Jenkins’s shot in Houston two springs back put Wright into that rare category of the untouchable coach. He’s won the ultimate game; he’s been a consistent winner; he’s done it the right way with good kids, most of whom graduate; and he charms everyone along the way. “I’ve done this for a long time,” said Philadelphia Inquirer sports columnist Bob Ford, who has covered Philly area sports since 1981. “There has never been anyone who gets exactly what we [members of the media] need like Jay. He knows how to give you what you want with every answer and, at the same time, he also gets across what he wants to get across. He’s unique.” Of course all those wins, including two Final Four trips and the national title, have raised the bar so high for Villanova that it is almost impossible to reach it most years. The buzz going into Saturday’s game against Alabama here in PPG Paints Arena has little to do with the 31 victories this season. “It’s ‘are they going to lose in the second round again?’ ” Wright said, laughing. “I’m fully aware of that. We’ve lost in the second round a bunch of times. I remember them all, especially the one here three years ago. That turned out to be one of the most important games ever for us.” Villanova was 32-2 going into that tournament, the No. 1 seed in the East and the No. 2 seed overall, just as it this season. The Wildcats easily beat a No. 16 seed, Lafayette, in the first round. Then they lost to eighth-seeded North Carolina State, 71-68. [One crying moment: 15 of the toughest defeats in NCAA tournament history] “Nothing went right that night,” Wright said. “We missed shots we always made. We bobbled the ball when we were wide-open underneath. Our defense broke down at key moments. But our two seniors, JayVaughn Pinkston and Darrun Hilliard, wouldn’t let us give up when it would have been easy to give up. They kept after the young guys and almost willed us to win a game we had no right to win the way we played. “The younger guys on that team — Ryan Arcidiacono, Daniel Ochefu, Josh Hart and Kris — talked the entire next season about those two guys. They weren’t great players, but they’re legends in our program.” He stopped, enjoying the memory. “A year later, before the second round I said to all of them, ‘Hey fellas, we’ve got absolutely nothing to fear. We’ve lost in this round two years in a row and, in the first round the year before that, right? There’s nothing we can do that’s going to piss people off any more at us. They’re already convinced we can’t win this time of year. No matter what we do, can it possibly be any worse than last year? No.” Villanova beat Iowa, 87-68 in that second round and went on to the national championship. There was no complaining from the faithful after that. Now though, the whispers are there again. The Wildcats got a pass after being upset by Wisconsin in, naturally, the second round a year ago because of the 2016 title. Now though, the second-round question is being raised again. Alabama is a No. 9 seed that’s been very up and down all season but has a likely NBA lottery pick in Collin Sexton and a dangerous three-point shooter in John Petty. Villanova should win. But . . . “When you are consistently a high seed that means two things,” Wright said. “It means your players have consistently played well for quite a while. It also means the expectations you face are always going to be very high. “I know what the reaction is going to be if we lose Saturday or anytime before the Final Four. I like the challenge. That’s what I tell the players: Enjoy the challenge. If you weren’t good, if you hadn’t had success, you wouldn’t have expectations like this. Just go out and play. What happens, happens. That’s the way basketball is; it’s the way life is. One way or the other, we’ll deal with it.” And, win or lose on Saturday or in the future, no one will see Jay Wright sweat. Not now. Not ever.  For more by John Feinstein, visit washingtonpost.com/feinstein.  More NCAA tournament coverage: Entertainer, scoundrel or brilliant coach? Bruce Pearl says, ‘I’m just being myself.’ Brewer: Virginia can’t let one broken wrist stop it from knocking down the door Arizona’s stunning loss to Buffalo eliminated the NCAA’s biggest headache from the tournament Stephen F. Austin coach says his college basketball team has too many millennials For Michael Porter Jr. and Mohamed Bamba, mock drafts are part of March Madness Duke’s Grayson Allen on being a villain: ‘I own it now’