BEIRUT — Thousands of people streamed out of the besieged Damascus suburb of Eastern Ghouta on Thursday as Syrian forces overran another part of the last major rebel stronghold outside the capital. The exodus from the town of Hammouriya — part of the Eastern Ghouta enclave — came after an overnight battle had trapped civilians under a blitz of airstrikes that blocked their escape to other rebel-held areas, according to residents and human-rights monitors. The government advances came despite a U.N. Security Council Resolution nearly three weeks ago mandating a 30-day cease-fire. Instead of stopping the fighting, the resolution seems to have triggered an accelerated push by the government to capture the enclave. At least 1,540 people have been killed and nearly 6,000 injured since the resolution was unanimously passed Feb. 24, according to the Eastern Ghouta health directorate. Throughout the day on Thursday, Syrian state television broadcast live coverage of columns of families walking out of the town toward Syrian government lines, clutching children and bags of belongings. Men were bowed under heavy suitcases. Women carried children and torn plastic bags of clothes. An injured, blood-soaked man was carried on a stretcher. An elderly man pushed his wife in a wheelchair; another walked with a herd of cows. A few carried portraits of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, declaring their allegiance to the government that has been battling to reclaim control of the enclave from the mostly Islamist rebels who have controlled it since the earliest days of the war. Some walked silently past the camera, turning their faces away and refusing to talk. Others paused to speak, thanking the Syrian army. One women claimed the rebels shot her son because her husband and other son worked for the Syrian military. “May God not forgive them,” she said. [Isolated and vulnerable: A look at Ghouta, the rebel held enclave under siege] The state-TV stream was punctuated by the roar of warplanes overhead and the crashing thuds of explosions as the bombing continued. The latest conquest by the government comes as Syria marks the seventh anniversary of the initially peaceful uprising against Assad that quickly mutated into a raging war. The cluster of towns and villages known as Eastern Ghouta has been under rebel control since the earliest days and have been completely besieged by government forces since 2013. Numerous previous attempts by Syrian forces to wrest back the area have failed. Earlier this year, the government launched a major offensive, dispatching elite forces and launching waves of airstrikes. The government has since recaptured over half of the territory that had been controlled by the rebels, but Hammouriya was the first significant town to be overrun. Activists said they counted more than 300 airstrikes on Eastern Ghouta on Wednesday, with most of them concentrated on Hammouriya. Residents sent desperate pleas for help as the bombs rained down, with ambulances unable to reach the wounded. “Whole families are killed. Their bodies are in the streets. No one can help due to the bombing and the shelters are burning with children and women and families,” said a message posted on a social media group by Nour Adam, an activist in Eastern Ghouta who said he had heard the description from a friend inside Hammouriya. Two hours later, he said, his friend stopped answering the phone. Later Thursday afternoon, state television began broadcasting from inside the recaptured town, where many thousands of people were milling in the streets with suitcases and bundles, preparing to leave. Pickup trucks, Syrian army vehicles and buses then arrived, and residents piled furniture and mattresses on board as they were escorted out of the town.  Zakaria Zakaria in Istanbul and Heba Habib in Stockholm contributed.  Read more Syrian military pushes for victory in Ghouta, defying international outcry Doctors in besieged Syrian enclave treating new wounds, waiting on cease-fire Starved and abandoned, a suburb of the Syrian capital braces for new attacks Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news