Tucker Carlson opened his Fox News show Thursday night with a succinct explanation of why President Trump's backers stick with him — which, viewed in reverse, doubles as a guide to what could cause supporters to lose faith. “The shortcomings of this administration are clear,” Carlson said, citing Trump's Twitter habit — which even many Republicans dislike — as an example. “They are usually worth it, though, for two reasons. First, the ideas the president ran on are basically right. 'America First' ought to be the operating principle of every American administration, by definition. ... Second, the alternatives to what we have now are scary and getting scarier. The Democratic Party is completely irresponsible and increasingly anti-American. They prefer illegal aliens to our middle class.” Carlson was channeling the perspectives of Trump voters, but pro-Trump media is similar. The president's boosters in the press are generally willing to overlook the daily drama because they view (or at least portray) him as a defender of American interests and culture. Thus, anything Trump says or does that appears counter to American interests and culture, as his supporters define those terms, can set off alarms. Here are some of those things: Carlson: “Imagine if Barack Obama had said that — just ignore due process and start confiscating guns. Obama would have been denounced as a dictator. We would have denounced him first, trust me.” Laura Ingraham, Fox News host: “Is President Trump giving away the store on gun rights? During a bipartisan meeting with lawmakers this afternoon, the president shocked Republicans — yours truly included — and Democrats alike after saying this." Breitbart News: “Trump the gun grabber” Mark Levin, radio host: “This is a bigger number than Barack Obama ever contemplated. Obama is laughing tonight. ... It's going to be spun as absolute genius. No, it's not; it's absolutely pathetic.” Breitbart: “Immigration shock: Amnesty Don suggests citizenship for illegal aliens” Carlson: “So, millions of people who broke our laws to get here would receive amnesty. Very few of the president's supporters voted for that when they put him in office last year, and some of them are upset about it.” Why is it so hard to 1) enforce federal law; & 2) keep campaign promises? https://t.co/6O21HXxIGv Daily Caller: “Donald Trump may be the worst negotiator in politics.” Politicians are supposed to keep their word. R's failed on Healthcare, broke their word They have failed! @POTUS needs to keep his promises https://t.co/NldKWcFrRB And if @POTUS doesn't keep that promise, and goes for amnesty, it will be the political equivalent or "read my lips, no new taxes" https://t.co/WxBSHYMxv6 Weak R's have betrayed voters. @POTUS needs to stay the course and keep his promises or it's over! Pelosi and Schumer can never be trusted. https://t.co/ky0NWvZoBv RT: “His signature campaign promise of putting 'America First' and ending the folly of overseas wars launched by previous administrations was shredded on prime-time television.” Alex Jones, Infowars founder: “Trump is really disintegrating in my eyes, on many levels.” politics  the-fix Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. Raheem Kassam, Breitbart London editor: “I'm apoplectic.” Trump campaigned on not getting involved in Mideast. Said it always helps our enemies & creates more refugees. Then he saw a picture on TV. Though it often seems that Trump's fans in the media will defend him, no matter what, there are certain policy promises he made as a candidate which, if not kept, can spark outrage. His positions on new gun-control measures remain squishy, but he has said things this week that worry the staunch Second Amendment advocates in his corner. Carlson contended Thursday that the good outweighs the bad in the eyes of most Trump backers, but the president risks shifting the balance, if only slightly, by entertaining such ideas as banning rifle sales to people younger than 21. The test of his resolve will be whether he is willing to accept more criticism from supporters in the press.