WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — Brian Goodwin, probably more than most would, appreciates the leap his baseball career made last season. After toiling in the minors for longer than he and the Nationals expected, he finally received a chance to make an impact at the major league level in his sixth year. He capitalized, and he’s itching for more. “It was real nice to get up out of Triple-A and get to where you felt you were supposed to be,” Goodwin said. “But it still was like a little bit of a tease.” It was a tease, the refreshingly honest Goodwin admitted, because he wants to play every day. And the outfielder knows barring injury he won’t, at least not this season. The Nationals are deep in the outfield throughout their system — deeper than anywhere else — and Goodwin understands an everyday job isn’t in the cards in a Nationals uniform. [ Daniel Murphy: ‘It’s reasonable to expect I won’t be in the Opening Day lineup’ ] “Really at this point, man, we just got such a good team,” the 27-year-old Goodwin said. “My teammates, I got excellent teammates — as people, too. They’re great guys off the field. But, I mean, it’s just a lot of talent for not too many spots. So, at this point, I just got to keep being who I am.” Last season, Goodwin was an above average hitter who played most of his games in center field, a premium position. Promoted to an everyday role for two months as injuries ravaged Washington’s roster, Goodwin batted .251 with an .811 on-base-plus-slugging percentage — a mark buoyed by a strong .498 slugging percentage. He posted a 105 OPS+, which means he was five percent better than the average major league hitter. He socked 13 home runs and 21 doubles while compiling 69 strikeouts in 278 plate appearances. Goodwin said he’d like to cut down on the strikeouts and steal more bases after swiping six in six chances last year, but the performance helped the Nationals stay afloat while key players missed time. The production earned him a spot on the playoff roster after finishing the regular season on the disabled list. [ Joaquin Benoit will not be in the Nationals’ Opening Day bullpen ] With Opening Day a week away, Goodwin is one of three outfielders behind the projected starting threesome of Bryce Harper, Adam Eaton, and Michael A. Taylor still in big league camp after top prospect Victor Robles was sent to Class AAA Syracuse earlier this week. Andrew Stevenson and Moises Sierra, both long shots to snatch a spot on the Opening Day roster, are the other two. So Goodwin, as projected, will likely be Washington’s fourth outfielder to start the season. Barring the unexpected, he will break camp on the major league roster — and as a bench player — for the first time. “It’s a big adjustment,” Goodwin said of the reserve role. “It’s not as much physically, but just staying mentally prepared. You have to keep the same intensity as a guy that’s playing every day when you’re on the bench. You got to prepare yourself. … It’s definitely tough. It’s definitely something that takes some time.” It’ll be another chance for him to prove he belongs at the highest level in a role he knows he must embrace. Read more on the Nationals: Gio Gonzalez may be entering his final season as a National, and he wants to make it count Nationals name Max Scherzer their Opening Day starter, though it was never in doubt Barry Svrluga: Dialing back the Max: Nationals seek to manage the relentless Scherzer Sports Illustrated predicts the Nationals will beat the Yankees in the World Series