The Republican governor of Illinois and a seven-term Democratic congressman struggled to stave off challenges from the right and left on Tuesday in primaries that tested the strength of the political establishment to beat back ideological insurgents. Voters decided whether to give first-term Gov. Bruce Rauner another shot in a contest with state Rep. Jeanne Ives, who argued that he had betrayed conservatives on abortion, immigration, and gay rights. In the 3rd Congressional District, moderate Rep. Daniel Lipinski (D-Ill.) faced the toughest challenge of his seven-term career from Marie Newman, an activist backed by liberal groups and several of Lipinski’s House Democratic colleagues. Democrats picked candidates in several other races, including three House districts held by Republicans. For the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, billionaire J.B. Pritzker faced Chris Kennedy, a member of the storied political family, and state Sen. Daniel Biss. The primaries for governor and Lipinski’s House seat pitted candidates willing to compromise against those who insist on defiance and ideological purity, reflecting broader fights playing out across the country. [Democrats expand map to once-safe Republican seats] Some data suggested that enthusiasm among Democrats was much higher than among Republicans, a worrying omen for Rauner. Democratic early votes outnumbered Republican early votes by nearly three to one, the Illinois State Board of Elections said Tuesday; in the 2016 presidential primary, the Democratic advantage had been just five to four. The Republican gubernatorial primary could be a significant turning point for Rauner, an unpopular political newcomer who faced criticism for the tumult that has dominated his first term. Rauner kept a low profile over the weekend while Ives maintained an active campaign schedule. The former private-equity executive provoked the conservative right in September when he signed a bill expanding abortion coverage for women on Medicaid. He also engaged in a long budget standoff with the state legislature that left Illinois $15 billion behind on its bills and triggered multiple downgrades that pushed the state’s credit rating almost to junk status. Rauner had put $50 million of his own money into his campaign, much of it on ads that blamed Democratic House Speaker Mike Madigan for the state’s problems. But Richard Uihlein put $2.5 million behind Ives, a conservative legislator from Chicago’s western suburbs. Sensing an opening, the Democratic Governors Association paid for an ad branding Ives “too conservative,” in what was seen as a ploy to boost her among Republicans. In Rogers Park, a lakeside city neighborhood, Sylvester Gunther, 59, said he was happy that Rauner was being challenged from all sides. The two-year budget stalemate did irreparable damage to the state, Gunther said, particularly among the most vulnerable, who experienced social services cuts. The Republican “created a crisis and wants someone to blame. It’s time for someone to do something different because it’s hurt a lot of people,” he said. Edith Thorne, 75, agreed. She cast her vote for Pritzker. Rauner has “not done any good for our state,” she said. “By not passing a budget he really put us behind the eight ball.” Pritzker and Rauner, both billionaire business executives, have spent $127 million combined on the campaign. Rich Moskal, 59, a Democrat who voted for Biss, said was turned off by the amount of money Pritzker was spending on the race. “Without question, it’s wealthy people wanting to be in positions of power,” Moskal said at a polling place in Lincoln Square, on Chicago’s North Side. “The spending is really unsettling. It upsets the balance of democracy.” Pritzker, whom Democratic leaders saw early on as the strongest challenger to the wealthy Rauner, struggled after the Chicago Tribune released tapes of conversations between him and disgraced former governor Rod Blagojevich from an FBI wiretap. While the tapes did not implicate Pritzker in any crimes, they helped challengers Biss and Kennedy earn second looks from voters. The race for the 3rd District, which includes parts of the southwest side of Chicago and western suburbs, has attracted considerable attention. Lipinski, who has held the seat since 2005, had warned that “the tea party of the left” wants to purge him, while Newman has criticized the incumbent as a relic of bygone conservative politics. Newman, a first-time candidate who was the Illinois spokeswoman for the gun-control group Moms Demand Action, received endorsements from NARAL Pro-Choice America, MoveOn, Emily’s List and two of Lipinski’s more liberal Illinois colleagues, Reps. Jan Schakowsky (D) and Luis V. Gutiérrez (D). “I know what’s in his heart, and it’s called hate,” Newman told supporters at a canvassing event late last week. “This guy is dangerous. His views are dangerous.” [Democratic group faces backlash for intervening in primaries] Rep. Mark Pocan (D-Wis.), the co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, said he had endorsed Newman in part because of Lipinski’s votes for religious freedom bills seen as making it easier for private businesses to discriminate against gay customers. “There’s a lot of districts where I’m backing people who are a lot more conservative than I am, because that’s the way we’re going to take them back,” said Pocan. “But when you have a district that looks as blue as this one in Illinois, I’d prefer that it be represented by someone who wants my husband and I to have full civil rights.” Republicans have written off the district, no matter who wins. After no credible candidate filed to run, the only Republican candidate on the ballot is Art Jones, a neo-Nazi activist denounced by the party. The winner of the Democratic primary is all but certain to serve in Congress — one reason that Blue Dog Democrats, conservatives who have shrunk to a small number in the party, chastised the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee for staying neutral. Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.), the Blue Dogs’ chairman, said he was reassured when House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi endorsed Lipinski, and did not expect the close race to encourage more primary challenges. “I’m not one of those people who discourages folks from running, but I’d hope that Democrats would try and channel their enthusiasms against other people, not fellow Democrats,” Schrader said. “I’d hope the long-term view is that we need to get to 218 in the House.” No incumbent Democrat in Congress has lost a primary since 2014, when Massachusetts’s scandal-plagued Rep. John F. Tierney was defeated by Seth Moulton. No congressional Democrat has lost a primary seen as an ideological contest since 2008, when Maryland’s Donna F. Edwards ousted Rep. Albert R. Wynn. Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.), who won his seat by defeating an incumbent Democrat in a 2016 runoff, said that the days were long gone when incumbents could expect to go unchallenged. “I think any incumbent should be prepared, in this moment, for competition,” said Khanna. Whether Marie wins or not, this shows that someone can get into a race quickly, raise money quickly, they can mobilize people quickly, and they can take advantage of how the value of incumbency has diminished. That’s a good thing. If she wins, it will encourage more progressives to get in and run.” Democrats also face a crowded primary for attorney general, with former governor Pat Quinn aiming for a comeback after his 2014 defeat by Rauner. The party is also watching a scrum in the 6th Congressional District, which Hillary Clinton won by seven points in 2016 after Barack Obama lost it in 2012. Seven Democrats are battling to challenge Rep. Peter J. Roskam (R-Ill.) there, and five are fighting to challenge Rep. Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) in a central Illinois district evenly divided between the parties.  Mark Guarino in Chicago contributed to this report.  Read more at PowerPost