ESPN has tapped a respected Disney executive to help lead the embattled network through a tumultuous period of changing viewership habits, staff downsizings, expensive rights-holder fees and public backlash over its perceived political leanings. Less than three months after John Skipper shocked the Bristol, Conn.-based company and the sports media establishment by announcing his sudden resignation, the network’s parent company is handing the reins to a familiar face: Jim Pitaro, who previously served as Disney’s chairman of consumer products and interactive media. Pitaro will serve as ESPN president and co-chair of Disney Media Networks. “Jimmy is a talented and dedicated leader with the right strategic vision, relentless drive and passion for sports required to lead the stellar ESPN team at this incredibly dynamic time,” Bob Iger, Disney’s CEO, said in a statement Monday. “Jimmy forged his career at the intersection of technology, sports and media, and his vast experience and keen perspective will be invaluable in taking ESPN into the future.” Skipper cited a “substance addiction” in announcing his immediate resignation Dec. 18, and ESPN has been led on an interim basis by George Bodenheimer, a former network president. [John Skipper resigns, capping tumultuous year for ESPN] Pitaro assumes control over ESPN at a crucial time in the network’s history. The company has been trying to stem the revenue losses created by subscribers cutting the cord and eschewing traditional cable offerings while also preparing to launch a new direct-to-consumer subscription service. ESPN has lost more than 13 million subscribers from its peak of 100.13 million households in 2011, and the company has laid off more than 500 employees — both behind-the-scenes personnel and front-facing talent — since October 2015. It has also bolstered its staff with numerous targeted hires in that time. “As a passionate and lifelong sports fan, I am honored to be joining the ESPN team during such a pivotal time in its storied history,” Pitaro said in a statement. “The appetite for quality sports content across platforms has never been greater, and I am looking forward to working with the talented ESPN team as we continue to redefine the future fan experience.” Pitaro had overseen Disney’s vast licensing business since May 2016 and previously served as head of Disney Interactive. Before joining the company, he was vice president and head of Yahoo Media and also vice president of business affairs for LAUNCH Media Inc.