CINCINNATI — Adam Eaton isn’t the type to embellish his home run trot. His is usually an unassuming jog, at a brisk pace with his head down. The trot lacks flair. But when he peered up as he rounded second base at Great American Ball Park on Saturday afternoon, he saw the people who supported him over the past year as he recovered from the most traumatic injury of his life, and he deviated. He pointed up to the group behind the Washington Nationals’ dugout, to his wife and parents and brother and in-laws, to acknowledge their impact. He was authoring the greatest performance of his accomplished career in the Nationals’ 13-7 victory over the Cincinnati Reds, and all he could think about was the role they’ve played in his life. “The moment kind of got the best of me,” Eaton said. Eaton exited the stadium Friday after a stirring Opening Day return knowing he was scheduled to start in left field again Saturday. That was about it. He didn’t know how much he would play or how he would feel. He hoped he would play all nine innings, but he wasn’t sure. He hadn’t played an entire nine-inning game since last April, since tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee. The Nationals are taking it slow with their left fielder, and he is complying. Eaton had a conversation with Manager Dave Martinez upon arriving at the ballpark Saturday morning. Though he was feeling, as he put it, “brutal,” he told the skipper he wanted to play. He said it took him 90 minutes to warm up. Within a couple hours, he was white-hot. Wreaking havoc on the Reds 75 miles from his home town of Springfield, Ohio, Eaton went 5 for 5 with two singles, two doubles, a solo home run, three RBI and four runs. The five hits were a career high. If not for the slight limitations still hampering his running ability, he might have stretched his second double, a frozen rope down the right field line, into a triple and hit for the cycle. Teammates gave him grief for not going for it. He ended up playing 7½ innings because, frankly, he didn’t need to play all nine. “Incredible performance,” Martinez said. “He’s a spark plug. He gets us going right away.” Eaton’s homer was one of Washington’s four. Trea Turner smacked a solo shot. Matt Adams and Brian Goodwin, both playing for regular starters given the day off, contributed the others. Adams, starting for Ryan Zimmerman at first base, blasted a three-run, 460-foot blast off Reds starter Luis Castillo in the first inning. Goodwin, starting at center field for Michael A. Taylor, belted his first career grand slam in the ninth. [Goodwin on adjusting to reserve role: 'It's definitely tough'] While Eaton and the home runs ignited the offense, Stephen Strasburg dominated the Reds’ lineup for most of his 6⅓ innings, and Sammy Solis, thrown into the hottest of fires in his first outing of the season, managed the most thrilling of escapes. A few hours before he toed the rubber, Strasburg sat stone-faced at his locker, thumbing through his phone when he wasn’t peering at the televisions across the clubhouse. He was in the zone, in another galaxy, and his teammates knew better than to snap him out of it. After a rocky first inning, Strasburg retired 14 of the next 15 batters. Of his seven strikeouts, five came via a filthy change-up the Reds couldn’t solve. “That was a good place to start,” Strasburg said. But trouble found Strasburg in the sixth inning after Turner bobbled a sure double play ball for the first error of the Nationals’ season. The gaffe led to a couple unearned runs. The Reds then loaded the bases in the seventh inning, trailing 7-3, before Strasburg struck out Eugenio Suarez looking on his 99th and final pitch. With Joey Votto, last season’s National League MVP runner-up, due up, Martinez faced the first pressing decision of his managerial career. He opted to give the ball to Solis, preferring a lefty-lefty matchup to having Strasburg face Votto for the fourth time. Solis disposed of Votto on four pitches, getting him looking at a 94-mph fastball for strike three. It was a masterful display against an all-star player. Three pitches later, Scooter Gennett, already with six hits on the season, grounded out back to Solis. sports nationals  Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Daily newsletter Sports news with a focus on D.C. area teams. Please provide a valid email address. “I was preparing out in the bullpen knowing I was probably going in to face him,” Solis said. “And I’ve faced him before, so I had a little bit of a plan. But you just kind of pitch to your strengths at that point.” A few minutes later, with two outs and the bases loaded in the eighth inning, Eaton flared a single to shallow left field for the final of his five hits. The knock drove in two and extended Washington’s lead to 9-3. In a shocking development, Eaton didn’t score in his fifth time on base. He was left stranded at first and then removed from the blowout in the bottom of the frame. He’ll probably be back in there atop the Nationals’ lineup Sunday, looking to improve on the 6-for-8 two-game explosion he’s posted in just 14½ innings. He has been the spark plug the Nationals expected before the injury, and more. The credit, he insists, goes to that group in the stands. More Nationals and MLB coverage: Don’t freak out about the Nationals’ $16 beers Boswell: For Dave Martinez, Nationals’ lineup is never out of order, just shaken up a bit Martinez soaked in his first win as Nats manager — with big help from Max Scherzer MLB’s Opening Day featured unconventional lineups and bizarre defensive shifts