AUSTIN — Hours after Austin police made a public appeal Sunday regarding three deadly package explosions in the city this month, they were called to investigate yet another incident that caused multiple injuries in a residential area. Two men in their 20s were injured Sunday in an explosion on the 4800 block of Dawn Song Drive after a package bomb detonated as they passed on bicycles, said interim Austin Police Chief Brian Manley. Unlike the other explosions, which detonated after victims tried to pick up packages left at their homes, this package was left on the side of the road and was possibly triggered by a tripwire, Manley said. “We are working under the belief that this is related to the other bombing incidents that have occurred in our community over the last couple weeks,” he said at a news conference at 1:30 a.m. Monday. national  morning-mix Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false Morning Mix newsletter Stories that will be the talk of the morning. Please provide a valid email address. The two men, who have not been identified, were rushed to the hospital with serious, but non-life-threatening injuries, Austin-Travis County EMS officials said on Twitter. Early Monday, a spokeswoman for St. David’s South Austin Medical Center said the injured men were in good condition. The earlier three package bombs claimed the lives of a 39-year-old construction worker and a 17-year-old high school student, and seriously injured a 75-year-old woman. The explosions have put the Texas community on edge and police continue to urge residents not to handle unexpected packages. After Sunday’s explosion, Manley urged residents in the surrounding neighborhood to remain in their homes while investigators continue to probe the area. Because of the darkness, he said, police may not know until after sunrise whether other suspicious devices were left in the neighborhood. He said that people who needed to leave their homes should call 911 for an escort. “Given the darkness, we have not really had the opportunity to really look at this blast site to determine what has happened,” Manley said at a news conference late Sunday. “It’s obvious there’s been an explosion; it’s obvious it caused significant injures to two people, and it is important right now for anyone in the neighborhood behind us to remain inside and give us time to work through this.” Manley also said that officers were working to clear a backpack left in the area. The FBI and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were also on the scene. Sunday’s explosion occurred in southwest Austin in the Travis Country subdivision. The previous explosions happened in the eastern side of the city. Steve Brown, 53, had gone out to dinner Sunday and was returning home when he saw the police tape. “It’s kind of surreal,” he told The Washington Post. “It had been on the other side of town — now it’s on our street.” He said his 80-year-old mother-in-law was at home and told them she heard a “boom.” Early Monday, Austin Independent School District announced on Facebook that it was keeping school buses out of the neighborhood and would be excusing any related tardiness or absences. Regents School of Austin, a private Christian school near the neighborhood where the explosive went off, said class would begin later Monday so the staff could do a security sweep of the campus. “Please remind your children that our LORD is now, and continues to be, in control despite what we see or hear,” the Regents school’s statement said. “Although this tragic event hits close to our community let us be resolved in what, and who, we look to in times as this.” Sunday was the final day of the South By Southwest festival, which has attracted hundreds of thousands of people to the city for more than a week. On Saturday, the Roots concert was canceled after the venue received a bomb threat, authorities said. Police later arrested a 26-year-old Trevor Weldon Ingram in connection with the threat. Police have said they do not think the explosions are related to the festival. When the first explosion happened on March 2, killing Anthony Stephan House, police thought it was an “isolated incident.” Ten days later, however, two more package bombs exploded. One killed Draylen Mason, a high school senior well known for his love of music, playing everything from funk to mariachi to classical music. The second bomb that day critically wounded Esperanza Herrera, who was visiting at her mother’s house where the package was delivered. Officials familiar with the case told The Post that the package was addressed to a different home, further puzzling investigators. In investigating a possible connection between the victims authorities discovered that House and Mason had relatives who were friends. House’s stepfather, Freddie Dixon, told The Post last week that he was close to Mason’s grandfather, Norman Mason. They were fraternity brothers, and Norman Mason also attended the church where Dixon was once a pastor, Dixon said. He said he did not think the connection was a coincidence. “Somebody’s done their homework on both of us, and they knew what they were doing,” he said, adding that he believed the explosions were possibly a hate crime or the result of a vendetta. There is no known connection between Herrera and the other victims, authorities said. Because all three victims were black or Hispanic, police said they have not ruled out the possibility that they were targeted because of their race, but do not have hard evidence of this. The races of the latest victims were not disclosed. Manley said that more than 500 officers, including from the FBI and ATF, have followed up on 435 leads and have conducted 236 interviews. None have resulted in a suspect so far. Earlier Sunday, the Austin Police Department announced it had increased the reward for information leading to the arrest of those responsible for the first three explosions to $100,000. An additional $15,000 reward was announced earlier by Gov. Greg Abbot (R). Manley also made a direct appeal to the suspect, a person Manley has said must have “sophisticated” bomb-making skills. He said Sunday that he believed the bomber had a “message,” but that investigators didn’t yet know what it was. “These events in Austin have garnered worldwide attention,” he said, “and we assure you that we are listening. We want to understand what brought you to this point, and we want to listen to you.” Flynn reported from Washington. Moravec reported from Austin. More about the Austin explosions: ‘Who did this and why?’: Austin remains tense after deadly bombings as police look for answers Austin police search for bombing motive, say explosives made with ‘skill and sophistication’