LOS ANGELES — In the aftermath of Texas A&M’s dominant 86-65 victory over North Carolina on Sunday afternoon in Charlotte, a victory that allowed the Aggies to advance to the Sweet 16, Kyle Keller was celebrating in the locker room with Coach Billy Kennedy. Keller had worked under Kennedy during Kennedy’s first five years in College Station, Tex., before leaving in 2016 to take over Stephen F. Austin’s program and had flown to Charlotte to watch his former team after his Lumberjacks were bounced in the first round of the NCAA tournament. But when Keller tried to credit Kennedy’s coaching decisions during the game — in particular switching to a zone early on that helped coax the Tar Heels into going 6 for 31 from three-point range — for leading the Aggies to the victory, Kennedy would have none of it. “He said, ‘Oh, man. God must have been in those rims when they were missing those three-pointers,’” Keller said with a laugh over the phone Wednesday afternoon. “He takes no credit. . . . He’s the most selfless man ever. “It’s just like, ‘It ain’t me. It’s God.’ And it’s not fake. It’s real.” Following one of the biggest wins in program history, such conversations about faith can engender a laugh from a friend. But that devotion on a day-in, day-out basis has allowed Kennedy not only to survive the past seven years at a power conference job but to do so while dealing with a diagnosis of early-onset Parkinson’s disease before he had coached a single game for the Aggies. “It’s the biggest thing,” Kennedy said Wednesday in a quiet moment in the bowels of Staples Center after his seventh-seeded Aggies practiced ahead of Thursday’s game against No. 3 seed Michigan. “It’s the most important thing. It keeps me balanced. It keeps me focused on the priorities of life. “My relationship with Jesus Christ is the most important thing to me, and it helps me be a good husband and a good father and a good coach.” [Defiant and wounded, Rick Pitino insists he did nothing wrong — and wants back in] Kennedy was hired by Texas A&M in May 2011. Unlike his two predecessors in College Station (Mark Turgeon and Billy Gillispie), this wasn’t a steppingstone job for Kennedy. A basketball lifer who had hopped from Centenary to Southeastern Louisiana to Murray State, coaching at Texas A&M was a dream job — and one Kennedy, when he was introduced, said he hoped to hold until he retired. Then came the diagnosis that October. He took a leave of absence to sort out his health situation, and in that moment, it appeared his dream could be over before it began. But Kennedy did what he has long done — he turned to his faith. By mid-November, he was back on the sidelines. “I’m not preaching to you,” Kennedy said. “But if you ask me something, I’m going to tell you. “Job 23:10 says, ‘But he knoweth the way that I take: when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold.’ I held on to verse, and that verse helped get me through it. That was a big part. I knew we were tasting gold when we won the SEC championship two years ago, and we’ve been blessed ever since.” That title came in Kennedy’s fifth season on the job — and there were plenty of tough times before then. Opposing coaches viciously recruited against Kennedy and his health status, something Keller had noticed on the recruiting trail but that didn’t come out into the open until Alex Robinson, a top point guard recruit, spoke about it publicly in 2013. The Aggies didn’t make the NCAA tournament during Kennedy’s first four seasons. But then came a breakthrough in 2016, when Texas A&M won that Southeastern Conference title and advanced to a region semifinal for the first time in nine years and only the fourth time in school history. Now, two years later, the Aggies find themselves back here again — a win away from the school’s first Elite Eight birth. “That’s our goal, and I think we’re very capable of it,” Kennedy said. “We’ll continue to show the faithfulness of what I believe in and what the program believes in: doing the right things and having faith in great things.” [Take a tour of Loyola Chicago, which wasn’t a sports school until last week] That faith has served Kennedy well when it comes to his illness, and it also helped him keep things steady during what only can be described as a tumultuous season in College Station. After winning 11 of its first 12, Texas A&M moved to No. 5 in the country heading into its opening game of SEC play against Alabama on Dec. 30. The Aggies proceeded to get their doors blown off, losing by 22, the first of five straight losses to open conference play and seven of nine games overall. Combined with a series of injuries, it looked as if Texas A&M’s once-promising season was going to come to a crashing halt — and with it, according to some rumors that began to circulate during the team’s struggles, Kennedy’s job. But the Aggies rallied to win seven of their final 10 regular season games to earn an NCAA bid. And after beating Providence in its opening game Friday in Charlotte, the Aggies upset the Tar Heels. “During tough times, I lean on Romans 8:28: And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose,” Kennedy said. “When we were losing, and we had the injuries, I said, ‘All right guys, all things are going to be good.’ “I didn’t see it, but I believed in it. I’m glad to see that God is faithful, and we’ve been rewarded with some success now.” Some would say there is success in him even being in the job at this point. Kennedy credits massage therapy and acupuncture for helping him deal with his illness, and he said he works out every day. His players joke that Kennedy’s assistants do the yelling for him — though assistant Isaac Chew, who worked with Kennedy at Murray State, says he was never a yeller, anyway. “He’s not going to change who he is based on what people say on the outside,” Chew said. “He’s going to be the same guy every day. He’s not going to be a yeller or screamer. He’s going to be about his faith. “And you respect him because circumstances don’t allow him to change. He’s going to stick with what his gut tells him to be.”  More on the NCAA tournament: Feinstein: Behind college basketball’s best surprise story, a pioneer for racial equality NCAA tournament gambling: ATS trends for all your Sweet 16 needs Shai Gilgeous-Alexander’s rise from Canadian curiosity to likely NBA lottery pick Among top NBA draft prospects, Marvin Bagley III has March Madness stage to himself