NEW DELHI — Hillary Clinton said over the weekend during a trip to India that the United States did not “deserve” the presidency of Donald Trump. The former presidential candidate spoke at an event in Mumbai, where she schmoozed with Bollywood stars and where a well-known journalist warmly introduced her as the “woman who should have been the president of the United States of America.” In her speech, Clinton spoke of the dangers of Russian influence and authoritarianism in regimes worldwide. “These are perilous times,” she said. Later, when asked about the seemingly close relationship between Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin, now subject of a special counsel's investigation, Clinton replied: “Trump does have quite an affinity for dictators. He really likes their authoritarian posturing and behavior.” “He does have a preexisting attitude of favorability toward these dictators, but I think it’s more than that with Putin and Russia,” she said. “Do they have something on him?” asked the event’s host, India Today Editor Aroon Purie. “Well, we’ll find out, we’ll find out,” she answered. “Follow the money.” In the hour-long appearance, Clinton bemoaned the “reality campaign” tactics of her opponent in the 2016 presidential campaign — musing that perhaps she should have provided more “entertainment” to voters who were responding to Trump’s brash campaign of “insulting and attacking.” “If people were looking for a reality TV campaign, maybe I should have given them more entertainment,” she said. “I’m the mother who says, ‘Eat your spinach, you’ll grow up strong.’ Someone else is saying, ‘Eat all the fast food and the ice cream you can possibly stick in your mouth.’ ”  Clinton, a former first lady and U.S. senator, has made visits to India since 1995, including a high-profile trip as secretary of state in 2011 when she advocated what a U.S. policy of a “pivot” toward Asia. After her appearance in Mumbai, Clinton flew to the central Indian city of Indore for a private visit to the remote Ahilya Fort hotel in Maheshwar, an 18th-century fort built by a queen on the Narmada River. One of the queen’s descendants, Richard Holkar, restored the fort and reportedly invited Clinton to visit. Read more: world  worldviews Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Today's WorldView newsletter What's most important from where the world meets Washington Please provide a valid email address. Doubting the intelligence, Trump pursues Putin and leaves a Russian threat unchecked Hillary Clinton, a favorite GOP foil, plans discreet 2018 strategy A Trump spokesman just said something about collusion that he might come to regret