Once again, President Trump underscored the vast difference between Trump the person and Trump the administration when it comes to his stance on divisive issues. And that's why, in hindsight, it was always pretty clear that Trump would not support any gun-control proposals. Where Trump's White House ended up on how to respond to school shootings is a world away from where he started. On Sunday, the White House released its proposal, which focuses on arming teachers and doesn't mention raising the age limit for assault rifle purchases, a move for which Trump had expressed support. That's just the latest contradiction from the president on guns. He started out as one of the most pro-gun and pro-National Rifle Association presidents in modern history. After the massacre at a high school in Parkland, Fla., last month, he lent his support to a dizzying array of proposals from both sides. He: The White House ended up far to the right of most of these proposals. Its idea to arm teachers is so controversial that most Republicans in Congress don't support it. We saw a similar unraveling of compromise play out in a January immigration debate. And a pattern is starting to emerge on how to read Trump's wild spins on divisive issues: When it comes time for the White House to put its own ideas in writing, he'll land to the right of most of Washington, no matter how he seemed to be at the center or left just a few days before. When the cameras were invited to a White House meeting with Trump and bipartisan lawmakers a few weeks ago, Trump seemed so open to gun-control proposals that he accused one of the most pro-gun-control Republicans in the Senate, Patrick J. Toomey (Pa.), of being afraid of the NRA because Toomey's universal background check bill from 2013 also didn't raise the age limit for buying assault rifles. Then, Trump made one of the most pro-gun-control Democrats in the Senate, Dianne Feinstein (Calif.), positively giddy with the suggestion that Congress should ban assault weapons. Actually, almost all Senate Democrats were thrilled after that meeting. They launched a news conference the very next day on Capitol Hill to unveil their gun-control wish list, hoping to build on the momentum the president had just given them. “I am sure many of you in this room and many Americans around the country watched the president's meeting on gun violence yesterday,” said Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), “and were rather stunned and surprised. Many of us pleasantly.” Though Democrats say they were skeptical, too After sitting down with Trump on guns, Schumer brought up Trump's flip flops on immigration as a cautionary flag: "The president was pulled back by the hard right and prevented a bipartisan proposal from emerging." But they had to try to test the waters to see what support they had from the president. And whatever support they may have had from Trump fizzled almost as soon as he gave it. Trump ignored their outstretched hand on universal background checks and started talking more about arming teachers. Less than two weeks after that meeting, his White House formalized his drift back to the right. They announced Sunday night that they would help train schoolteachers to carry guns, a proposal plucked straight from the NRA, and that they'd endorse a Republican-led bill that reinforces the background check system but doesn't expand it. [ What will Congress realistically do on guns after the Florida shooting? ] politics  the-fix Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. Pretty much the same pattern played out a few months ago when Congress was trying to come up with an immigration deal to protect “dreamers” from deportation. Democrats thought they had a deal, only to watch Trump renege. Trump ultimately put forward an immigration proposal to drastically change the legal immigration system that is so conservative that most Republicans in Congress won't support it. There are two possibilities here about what's leading Trump to perform so many 360s on divisive issues, and they aren't mutually exclusive: “Mr. President, you need to be clear, though,” McCarthy said. “I think what Senator Feinstein is asking there — when we talk about just DACA, we don’t want to be back here two years later. You have to have security.” Trump responded: “I think that’s what she’s saying.” “No, I think she’s saying something different,” McCarthy said. (She was.) Whatever the reason for Trump's hard-right turns on immigration and guns, it underscores what Democrats most fear about negotiating with the president: that no matter what bipartisan compromises the president seems to support when they're across the table from him, he'll fall back to his most conservative positions.