Former Trump aide Sam Nunberg said Monday that he has been subpoenaed to appear in front of a federal grand jury investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election but that he will refuse to go. In an interview with The Washington Post, Nunberg said he was asked to come to Washington to appear before the grand jury on Friday. He also provided a copy of what appears to be his two-page grand jury subpoena seeking documents related to President Trump and nine other people, including emails, correspondence, invoices, telephone logs, calendars and “records of any kind.” Nunberg forwarded an email listed as coming from the office of special counsel Robert S. Mueller III seeking his appearance in front of the panel on Friday. Among those the subpoena requests information about are departing White House communications director Hope Hicks, former White House strategist Stephen K. Bannon, Trump lawyer Michael Cohen, former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and adviser Roger Stone. Nunberg said he does not plan to comply with the subpoena, including either providing testimony or documents. “Let him arrest me,” Nunberg said. “Mr. Mueller should understand I am not going in on Friday.” Nunberg said he was planning to go on Bloomberg TV and tear up the subpoena. It is unclear what actions Mueller would take if Nunberg does not appear in front of the grand jury. Nunberg, an early campaign aide, was dismissed by Trump and no longer is in his good graces. “The Russians and Trump did not collude,” Nunberg said. “Putin is too smart to collude with Donald Trump.” “I’m not spending 80 hours going over my emails with Roger Stone and Steve Bannon and producing them,” Nunberg said. “Donald Trump won this election on his own. He campaigned his ass off. And there is nobody who hates him more than me.” Nunberg repeated his vow to not cooperate with Mueller in a Monday afternoon interview on MSNBC, where he also suggested that the prosecutor may have evidence against Trump. “I think they may,” Nunberg said. “I think that he may have done something during the election.” politics   Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders responded to Nunberg’s suggestion that Mueller may have something on Trump by saying at her afternoon press briefing, “There was no collusion with the Trump campaign.” She also played down Nunberg’s importance. “He hasn’t worked at the White House, so I certainly can’t speak to him or the lack of knowledge that he clearly has,” Sanders said.  Philip Rucker contributed to this report. 