In the past 24 hours, the public has learned a surprising amount about the interior decorating operations of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, led by Secretary Ben Carson. One would think that with the breaking news about Jared Kushner’s security clearance and vulnerability to foreign manipulation, or about Rick Gates’s guilty plea involving his and Paul Manafort’s alleged financial crimes, that there wouldn’t be much room for details of the new decor at HUD. And yet, we know that the housing department spent $31,561 to purchase a dining set for Carson’s office. We also know that the department spent another $165,000 on “lounge furniture,” and that someone in the department believes a decent chair can’t be had for $5,000. Virtually every major news outlet is on the story. It’s the latest relatively minor financial scandal to receive attention disproportionate to its policy significance, and unfortunately for Carson, just the sort of thing that tends to result in profound consequences for the accused wrongdoer. Then-Rep. Aaron Schock (R-Ill.) drew mockery and condemnation over spending taxpayer funds to give his office a “Downton Abbey”-themed makeover, but the mockery soon turned to serious scrutiny, which led him to resign and the FBI to conduct a criminal inquiry into his spending. Sure enough, Congress has already begun an investigation into the HUD dining set fiasco. [‘I do like 3 meetings a day on that’: HUD official complained about effort to redecorate Carson’s office] Whether a financial scandal resonates with the public or results in a lost job or lost reputation has little to do with how much money is at stake. The Department of the Interior secretary’s neighbor was handed a $300 million no-bid contract to restore Puerto Rican power grid, despite the fact that his company, Whitefish Energy, had no experience and only two employees. A senior adviser to the president refiled his financial disclosure forms, admitting that he concealed $25 million of assets. The Health and Human Services secretary spent $1 million on chartered private planes and military aircraft. But it was only the last scandal, involving a comparatively puny sum, that led to a Cabinet secretary resigning. So why the disproportionate focus on a seemingly minor scandal?  There exists historical precedent for such episodes to receive greater attention than they seem to deserve. One of the Clintons’ most persistent scandals involved Hillary’s commodities trading during 1978 and 1979, in which she made $100,000 from a $1,000 investment in cattle futures contracts. White House Chief of Staff John E. Sununu resigned in 1991 after months of controversy over his travel expenses. Those episodes could be characterized as relatively minor misuses of power or violations of the public’s trust, but hardly worthy of comparison to Watergate, Iran-contra or alleged collusion with a foreign power to subvert U.S. democracy. A framework for understanding scandals proposed by British sociologist John Thompson identifies key characteristics that every scandal shares: a transgression of certain norms or moral codes, an element of secrecy or concealment, and public denunciation and expressions of disapproval. But what makes some scandals more newsworthy than others? After nearly a decade spent exploring the causes and consequences of scandals, I propose three additional criteria to explain why some scandals resonate more than other. The first criterion is simplicity. By comparison to the Manafort-Gates saga or the Whitefish Energy no-bid contract, a public official’s exorbitant spending on travel or furniture is relatively simple for to understand. Not many people have the practical knowledge to assess whether a government contract is reasonably priced and fairly awarded, but many people have purchased dining furniture and know that you don’t need to spend $31,000 to get a decent table. Small-scale financial scandals are similar to sex scandals in that both are easy for the public to understand, and neither usually involves lawbreaking but rather seem to violate norms of propriety. The second criterion is whether they “confirm the subtext,” to use the phrase adopted by Larry Sabato in his book “Feeding Frenzy.” The subtext, Sabato says, is “the between-the-lines character sketch that guides and sets the tone for press coverage.” The subtext is what generates the gleeful “I told you so” moments of schadenfreude. The brief tenure of HHS Secretary Tom Price illustrates the role played by subtext. Soon after Price was nominated to be secretary, an investigation revealed that Price traded more than $300,000 in the stocks of about 40 health care companies, and received at least one sweetheart deal, while serving on the congressional committee with jurisdiction over health care. As a congressman, Price requested that Medicare change its funding strategy in a specific way that led to a windfall profit for one company. The immediate beneficiaries of this policy change subsequently contributed more than $40,000 to Price’s campaign coffers. These scandals were not sufficient to block Price’s confirmation in February 2017, but they created an impression that he was a person willing to misuse his power for personal enrichment. When revelations about Price’s lavish travel emerged, there was already plenty of fertile ground for news stories to grow. His resignation in late September made him the shortest serving HHS Secretary in history. Sometimes the subtext is created by association. Sociologist Ari Adut has described how scandals are often “contagious,” contaminating people and institutions who are associated with the transgressor or who have engaged in similar transgressions. During the presidential campaign, stories spread about the Trump campaign paying — or possibly overpaying — the Trump organization for office space in Trump Tower, fundraisers at Mar-a-Lago, travel on Trump-branded jets and so forth. The subtext of these stories was that the political process was being manipulated for personal enrichment. The contagion spread to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, whose travel, including a trip to Fort Knox on which he was accompanied by his actress wife, cost taxpayers more than $800,000. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke cost the taxpayers $12,000 when he chartered a flight in an oil company executive’s private plane to give a speech to an NHL team. A series of stories have revealed that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt flies first class, charges taxpayers for flying back to Oklahoma from Washington on weekends, and has asked the government for round-the-clock bodyguards. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos receives protection from U.S. Marshals, costing roughly $1 million per month. In Carson’s case, the transgressions of so many members of Trump’s Cabinet makes each secretary vulnerable. A third criterion that intensifies the newsworthiness of a scandal is hypocrisy. Two weeks ago, the White House proposed cutting the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s budget by $8.8 billion. Splurging on new office decor while cutting public housing projects for the poor clearly meets the definition of hypocritical. But the narrow hypocrisy pales compared to the broader hypocrisy that some perceive with the Trump administration. The 2016 Republican convention echoed with accusations (unsupported by facts) that the Obama administration was the most corrupt in history, and that Trump would drain the swamp. The list of scandals involving Manafort, Kushner, Price, Mnuchin, Zinke, Pruitt and DeVos, not to mention Trump hotels and alleged collusion with Russia, have created an environment in which the public is simply anticipating the next scandal. It’s not clear that overspending on interior decorating will result in Carson’s resignation. But it is clear that the situation makes for a perfect scandal — easy to grasp, clearly hypocritical and, unfortunately for Carson, hard to forget.