NASHVILLE — The two proud programs from the big basketball burg of Cincinnati wound up careening into some kind of hardwood Bermuda Triangle here on Sunday. By the time 17,552 spectators got done witnessing two games in various configurations, a No. 2 seed and a No. 1 seed had held second-half leads totaling 34 points, yet had gone banished. Just when the spectators had processed (or not) No. 7 seed Nevada’s can’t-be-true comeback from a 65-43 deficit with 11 minutes left on No. 2 seed Cincinnati in the South Regional — and after some of those Xavier fans had seemed to relish same — Xavier had its first-ever No. 1 seed and its 58-46 lead with 9:48 left in the nightcap. That lead still held solidly at nine with 5:36 left, but then it dissipated in a mirthless swirl of uncertainty and tightness. Several flurries later, No. 9 seed Florida State had a 75-70 win, the West Regional had matched the South in losing its No. 1 seed, and another set of Cincinnatians faced the glum four-hour drive home. Xavier’s banner season ended with a 29-6 record and a near-airball, on a desperate possession with seven seconds left. “I wish we could just keep going,” Coach Chris Mack said. Where his ninth Xavier team had looked on the verge of a third Sweet 16 in four years and a sixth in 11, it became Leonard Hamilton’s 16th Florida State team that ushered Hamilton to his second Sweet 16 in Tallahassee and his first since 2011. Mack was left ruffled at a reasonable question about the end of an era with seniors Trevon Bluiett and J.P. Macura — “That’s a bad question to ask me” — while calling it a “pretty emotional ending, the finality of what I think is the greatest sporting event in the country.” Somehow, the likely rematch between Xavier and Gonzaga, who met in the final eight last year, had blurred into a match in Los Angeles between No. 4 seed Gonzaga and a Florida State team with a clunky 22-11 record, an eighth-place finish in the Atlantic Coast Conference and a 9-9 record in same. It would be a Seminoles team of which Hamilton said, while explaining how many people across the country can play good basketball, “I can’t say we were much better than Xavier, but we were much better than Xavier in the last two-and-a-half minutes of the game.” That would be pretty much inarguable. From Xavier’s 68-64 lead with 3:34 left, the Musketeers scored only two free throws more toward their messy finish. On two subsequent occasions, Florida State’s Braian Angola drove and either missed or had it blocked, and Mfiondu Kabengele swooped in to clean up matters with put-backs. The second one tied the game at 68, which lasted a snippet until Bluiett ran a fastbreak, drew a blocking foul and made two free throws with 1:39 left. The Seminoles committed an offensive foul, but the Xavier offense sputtered to a possession featuring a near-turnover and then an actual turnover, leading to a blast up the court that left Florida State’s PJ Savoy cocking a three-point shot from the right side. He hesitated “just to see what the defender was to do,” he said, and then he “let it fly,” and when it swished, Florida State led 71-70 with 1:08 left off an unforeseen 25-12 run. Six of its players had nine or more points, with Angola’s 16, Trent Forrest’s 13 and Savoy’s 11 leading the way there. Xavier not only would score no more, but would appear unlikely to do so with each chance. Asked if he felt the Musketeers had tightened, Savoy said, “I felt like everybody on the court tightened up,” which he called “the nature of the game.” So after Savoy’s shot Bluiett slipped down and lost the ball, bloating Xavier’s pivotal turnover total to 18. On its next one after that, which began with 21 seconds left and a three-point deficit, Kerem Kanter’s attempt at a three-point shot from the top seemed to graze the front of the net. In a tournament full of the inexplicable, a second No. 1 seed, following upon Virginia, had departed awkwardly, and the city of Cincinnati had departed doubly.