Kobe Bryant makes it look easy. Soooo easy. Less than two years after retiring from the NBA, his transition game is strong, landing a nomination for an Academy Award in animated short films for “Dear Basketball,” the cinematic version of a love letter he wrote to the game. “I’ve always been told that as basketball players the expectation is that you play. This is all you know. This is all you do. Don’t think about handling finances. Don’t think about going into business. Don’t think that you want to be a writer — that’s cute,” he told the Undefeated’s Kelley L. Carter. “I got that a lot. What do you want to do when you retire? ‘Well, I want to be a storyteller.’ That’s cute. This is … a form of validation for people to look and say, ‘Okay, he really can do something other than dribble and shoot.’ ” Bryant, the film’s executive producer, is nominated along with Disney’s Glen Keane, the animator who is behind, among other projects, “Aladdin,” “Beauty and the Beast” and “The Little Mermaid.” [Kobe Bryant’s Oscar nod rings awkward at a time when Hollywood is hyper-focused on sexual assault] “The most captivating thing in the world for me is the human body in motion, doing what seems to be physically impossible things,” Keane told Indiewire. “I’m really drawn to that as an animator. But this chance to actually be a basketball player was really unique. I knew what it was like being a mermaid, swimming free through the water and the weightless feeling. But this was different.” Win or lose, what’s next for Bryant, who calls “the art of creating … like putting together a puzzle,” remains in the world he knows best, sports. His Granity Studios and ESPN have partnered on a 15-episode show called “Detail” that will analyze basketball and be written, produced and hosted by Bryant. As he told Carter, all his plans “center around sports.” “How do we take sports and tell beautiful tales, beautiful stories that connect to human nature? If you look at sports as a whole, it connects people worldwide, on a global scale,” Bryant told Carter. “Much like music does. But what separates music from sports is that sports is something that unites people, something people do together.” The story he tells in “Dear Basketball” is about the end of something and the beginning of something else. “When I sat down to write, I could either say what I was feeling to the game, or I could visually communicate,” he told the New York Daily News last April. “If I’m speaking to someone, I think it’s always better to speak through stories, to speak through visual images . . . . “It’s an arc of understanding that things come to an end. When things come to an end, we can either embrace that change and welcome the change, or we can be resistant to that change. I found myself being at peace with this transition, and with the finality, with my career coming to an end.” The message that he sent in that letter to the game, published on the Players’ Tribune, is one that is as much about the future as the past. “I’m ready to let you go. I want you to know now So we both can savor every moment we have left together. The good and the bad. We have given each other All that we have. “And we both know, no matter what I do next I’ll always be that kid With the rolled up socks Garbage can in the corner :05 seconds on the clock Ball in my hands. 5 … 4 … 3 … 2 … 1 Love you always, Kobe” Read more from The Post: Charles Barkley’s “SNL” monologue takes aim at “shut up and dribble” Cris Cyborg takes Yana Kunitskaya’s best shot before retaining title Capitals flash their finest form in Stadium Series victory No longer sports’ dirty little secret, tanking is now on full display At NFL combine, UCF’s Shaquem Griffin posts 20 bench-press reps using prosthetic hand