President Trump suggested Wednesday that Democrat Conor Lamb, the apparent winner of a closely watched House special election in Pennsylvania, ran a “pretty smart race” by taking some positions that appealed to conservative voters. During a meandering speech at a Missouri fundraiser, Trump was in the midst of criticizing Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) when he suddenly brought up the “young man last night that ran,” an apparent reference to Lamb. “He said, oh, I’m like Trump. He said, I, I, you know, Second Amendment, all, everything. I love the tax cuts. Everything,” Trump said, according to audio of his remarks obtained by The Washington Post. “You wouldn’t have known. It’s a pretty smart race, actually.” Trump added: “The bottom line is when he votes, he’s going to vote with Nancy Pelosi.” The president said Lamb “sounded like a Republican to me.” Lamb has said he favors replacing Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, with someone else. He has been critical of the GOP tax bill. [Analysis: Say it with me, Donald Trump and Paul Ryan: Conor Lamb did not run as a conservative] Lamb is the apparent winner of the special election in Pennsylvania’s 18th Congressional District. Trump won the district by nearly 20 points and campaigned for Republican candidate Rick Saccone down the stretch. As of late Wednesday, Lamb held a lead of 627 votes over Saccone after more than 224,000 ­people cast ballots. The race has not been officially called because state officials continue to count provisional and military ballots, a process that could last until at least March 21. The fundraiser Trump attended was to benefit Missouri Attorney General Josh Hawley, a Republican who is running against McCaskill. “You have to defeat Claire McCaskill. Last time, she got very lucky. She got lucky — she was going to lose! That was a done deal. And then, something happened,” Trump said. When McCaskill ran for reelection in 2012, she faced then-Rep. Todd Akin (R-Mo.), who stoked controversy when he said that “legitimate rape” rarely causes pregnancy. He made the comments after securing the GOP nomination. McCaskill meddled in the GOP primary to help him win, running commercials portraying him as the most conservative candidate in the race. The intent was to elevate the candidate she saw as the weakest general election challenger. The president said Republicans ought to campaign on their sweeping tax law. He encouraged Hawley to remind voters that McCaskill voted against it. “Just keep bringing it up,” he said.