The FBI has arrested a 43-year-old Seattle man believed to be responsible for sending a series of suspicious packages to D.C. area government facilities Monday, authorities said. Thanh Cong Phan was taken into custody by local and federal authorities at his home in Everett, Wash., according to a statement from the FBI. He is expected to appear in federal court later Tuesday afternoon. Investigators do not believe the incident was one of terrorism, but they are exploring the suspect’s motive, a law enforcement official said. In a statement, the FBI said they believe Phan may have sent more than half a dozen packages which contained “potential destructive devices.” The packages were sent to Fort McNair, Fort Belvoir, Joint Base Anacostia — Bolling, the CIA in Langley, and the Naval Surface Warfare Center (NSWC) in Dahlgren, Virginia.  [‘Suspicious packages’ received at military installations in Washington area] No one was injured in the incidents. It was not immediately known what had tipped off authorities to deem the packages suspicious, but authorities said at least one of the packages contained black powder. The FBI had said Monday in a statement that each of the packages was collected for more analysis and sent to its lab at Quantico, Va. In its statement on Tuesday, the FBI said its investigation is ongoing with the U.S. Postal Service. Officials cautioned that additional packages may have been sent to mail processing facilities in the D.C. area and said they remain on alert.  The FBI said it is working with local law enforcement agencies and reminded the public to “remain vigilant and not touch, move or handle any suspicious or unknown packages.” One of the packages was received around 8:30 a.m. Monday at the National Defense University on the grounds of Fort McNair in Southwest Washington. An official there said the building was immediately evacuated The package sent there had an X-ray done, and it indicated what was suspected to be a type of fuse attached, according to Mike Howard, a spokesman for Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall.