SACRAMENTO — Mourners prepared to bury Stephon Clark on Thursday, after a week and a half of public grief and anger at police who mistook his phone for a gun and shot at him 20 times in his grandmother’s backyard. Clark’s brother threw himself on the coffin as the ceremony began at Bayside of South Sacramento. Roughly 300 people — mostly family — gathered inside the church, and about 600 others stood outside. Fliers described the ceremony as “A CELEBRATION OF LIFE,” but intense anger and grief lingered in this city. national  post-nation Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false About US newsletter Candid conversations about identity in 21st-century America Please provide a valid email address. On March 18, police searching for a reported vandal in a Sacramento neighborhood spotted Clark running into his grandmother’s backyard. Multiple officers opened fire on him, believing he held a gun, which police later said was a white iPhone. The death of the black, unarmed, 22-year-old father of two outside his family’s home was captured on body-camera video. He was one of more than 3,000 people who have been shot and killed by U.S. police since 2015, according to The Washington Post’s database of fatal police shootings. Cities have erupted in anger after many of those killings, and the capital of California was no exception. One protest shut down a Sacramento Kings game earlier this week. At a Sacramento City Council meeting Tuesday, Clark’s brother Stevante Clark led hundreds of protesters into the chambers. Some of them held their phones in the air while chanting Clark’s name. Stevante Clark seated himself upon the dais and addressed the crowd in lieu of his dead brother: “The mayor and the city of Sacramento has failed all of you,” he said. The meeting ended early, and Stevante Clark — alternately choking back tears and glaring in rage during a CNN interview — said Mayor Darrell Steinberg later phoned him and promised to help. “There is deep pain and anguish,” Steinberg told The Washington Post. “It’s our job to bear some of that pain, and to help translate the anguish and grieving and the historic pain [of black communities] into tangible and real change.” Clark converted to Islam several years before his death, and his funeral is expected to draw prominent activists from black and Muslim communities across the United States, including Rev. Al Sharpton, who will deliver the eulogy. On Wednesday night, Sacramento-area Muslims held an emergency town hall with community leaders, the NAACP, and members of Clark’s family to discuss how his death has impacted the city. Of more than 250 gathered, some wept as they were told that Clark’s body was in such bad condition from the shooting and two autopsies, that they were unable to wash him to prepare him for the burial. “The tools of dehumanization are eerily similar in how they are employed against Muslims and African Americans,” said Omar Suleiman, a prominent imam from Dallas. “The vilification of these figures after they are killed is to plant the message that this isn’t a person worth fighting for, this isn’t a community worth fighting for.” A day before the funeral, during Clark’s wake, his brother Stevante had to be carried inside the church, screaming at reporters. Alex Horton contributed to this report.