You knew the game was over because the announcer said it was over. That means it’s over. “Ballgame,” Tim Brando said with less than one second left, during one of the approximately 17 last-minute sequences in which it became clear that No. 1 Virginia would fall at Louisville Thursday night. When Brando called game, Louisville led by two points with 0.9 seconds on the clock, and Virginia had just committed a lane violation during the third of three free throw attempts, and so all the host Cardinals had to do was just chuck the ball down the court and let it bounce off someone’s head or sternum or belly or something and they would have achieved their crowning moment of the season, handing Virginia — the ACC’s best team and a presumptive No. 1 seed in the NCAA tournament — only its third loss on an emotionally charged senior night etc. etc. [Virginia stuns Louisville with five points in final 0.9 seconds for 67-66 win] “I might throw it high and long,” suggested color man Mike Gminski, who had the right idea. “Don’t give Virginia any chance at all to get the ball in this side of half-court.” Louisville’s Deng Adel lit upon a different plan, though, running down the baseline until he got called for traveling, at which point Virginia had its 17th chance to rise from the dead, at which point Virginia’s DeAndre Hunter — who entered the game with 18 three-pointers on the season — banked in a last-second heave to give Virginia an extremely casual 67-66 win, at which point I stood up in my living room and screamed something incomprehensible in semiconscious disbelief, while everyone on the Internet typed some variation of this: “March just started!” “It’s officially March!” “The Madness has begun!” “This is March!” “March. Madness!” Or, as former Virginia star Mike Scott put it, “AAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH.” Actually, Scott scraped together a far better game recap than I could offer, using just five sort-of words.    Wow — Mike Scott (@mikescott) March 2, 2018  AAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH — Mike Scott (@mikescott) March 2, 2018  See, and I haven’t even mentioned all the other crazy stuff that happened during the last 37 seconds, which lasted about 37 minutes, including the part where Louisville was up three with 5.8 seconds left and one last free throw coming. “One more and they’ll beat No. 1!” Brando said, with gusto. And then Louisville made the one more to go up by four! But Virginia’s Ty Jerome got fouled shooting a desperation three-pointer with 0.9 seconds left — down four, remember, which is probably a moment when you don’t need to foul the guy shooting a three-pointer — and then Jerome made the first two free throws to draw his team within two, which set up the final insanity. “We have a whistle, lane violation, it goes the other way, ballgame,” Brando said, which felt pretty much true. “They have run into an emotionally charged senior-night team that has outplayed them, really, at their own game,” Brando said of the Cavaliers, and that also felt true, because Louisville won the game, and we all knew that Louisville won the game, and that it was over. So what happened next was weird. No. 1 Virginia was down 4 with under a second to go … and won. Yep, it’s officially March. pic.twitter.com/yZR0OtFyTv — ESPN (@espn) March 2, 2018  And then all you could do was yell or shake your head or sprint as fast as you could around your neighborhood or whatever felt right. Oh my God #chills #GoHoos — Chris Long (@JOEL9ONE) March 2, 2018  DREDOOOOOOOOOOO O. T. A!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! — Ty Jerome (@TyJerome_) March 2, 2018  OK GUYS, WE'RE GONNA COMMIT A LANE VIOLATION THEN, WE'LL FORCE THEM TO TRAVEL ON AN OUT OF BOUND PLAY THEN THE GUY WITH THE HURT HAND WILL BANK IN A 3 THAT'S THE PLAN, HOOS — pierce (@pierceRX) March 2, 2018  MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MARCH. MADNESS. — NCAA March Madness (@marchmadness) March 2, 2018  YOU ALREADY KNOW WHAT IT IS!!!! #DREDO #WAHOOWA pic.twitter.com/zvvq2TJzIo — Virginia Men's Basketball (@UVAMensHoops) March 2, 2018  Louisville was up 4 with one second to go and lost. That is a special kind of choke job — Doug Gottlieb (@GottliebShow) March 2, 2018  Oh, Louisville. — Scott Van Pelt (@notthefakeSVP) March 2, 2018  Louisville just found a way to lose a game when they were up 66-62 with 0.9 seconds left. Fouled a three-point shooter. He made the first two, the third was a lane violation, but Louisville traveled on the inbounds. Then De'Andre Hunter banks in a 26-footer at the buzzer. — Rob Dauster (@RobDauster) March 2, 2018  UVA WITH THE HAIL MARY 3!! #SCtop10 pic.twitter.com/96ZwOMEDgP — SportsCenter (@SportsCenter) March 2, 2018  Apparently Louisville is now vacating wins with 0.9 seconds left. — Stewart Mandel (@slmandel) March 2, 2018  Things got weird in the Virginia-Louisville game tonight. pic.twitter.com/Ik9iFTkjzS — Neil Greenberg (@ngreenberg) March 2, 2018  I have nothing to tweet at this time — Barstool Louisville (@BarstoolCards) March 2, 2018  That has to be one of the craziest losses I have ever seen in my life I actually genuinely feel sorry for Louisville. That had to hurt — Matt Jones (@KySportsRadio) March 2, 2018  I feel so horrible for those Louisville kids. Every organ ripped out of their bodies on Senior Night. UVA wins in true Buckhantz It’s Not Possible fashion. — danny rouhier (@funnydanny) March 2, 2018  Worst Louisville loss I have ever witnessed. — Dominique Davis (@DJDeuceman) March 2, 2018  To the couple (specifically the girl) that I was sitting behind tonight at the Louisville basketball game, If your mans name is Aaron, he is cheating on you w Brittany honey. Everytime you would look over he’d switch the text convos to his mom but really texting Brittany — Lexi (@lexi1taylor) March 2, 2018  Ok, actually forget that last one. Unless your mans name is Aaron. Or if you’re actually Aaron. Then you should probably break things off with Brittany. Or at least come clean. You don’t want to keep living this double life. The point is: Well, choose your own point. If you’re a Louisville fan, the point is pure pain. If you’re an old-school Virginia fan, the point is that this team really does have something special and just won’t ever go away and cannot stop doing truly remarkable things. If you’re a younger Virginia fan, the point is you should still be out running shirtless around the neighborhood and not reading any of this. If you’re a casual college basketball fan, the point is that no matter how much the bad people try to ruin the game by squeezing it until shiny nickels pop out of every last orifice, it basically can’t be ruined as long as 20-year old kids are willing to do absurd and awful and wonderful and magical things on random Thursday nights, which is why we’ll all bemoan the sport’s problems and then stand in communal circles around television sets every year around this time, making the sorts of involuntary expressions of glee we don’t often make in these troubled times. And if you’re Mike Scott, the point is “AAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH.” Read more from The Post: Texas college fires baseball coach who just said no to Colorado recruit over state’s marijuana laws sports  dc-sports-bog Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. An early guide to March Madness as NCAA tournaments get going This is the best Virginia Tech team to ever play ACC basketball How LeBron James says he’d fix the “corrupt” NCAA