The University of Connecticut women’s basketball team is arguably the best sports program of all-time. So, it’s not uncommon for the Huskies to continue to break their own records, one-upping themselves year after year. But on Saturday, in the first round of the NCAA tournament, Geno Auriemma’s star-studded roster completely annihilated poor 16th-seeded St. Francis with a jaw-dropping performance. The Huskies, favorites to win their 12th straight NCAA title and fifth in six years, scored 94 points in the first half of its 140-52 win over St. Francis. Yes, 94 points in one half, and, yes, 140 total points. U-Conn. beat a team by 88 points in a first-round NCAA tournament game.  U-Conn.’s 94 points at the half set an NCAA Division I women’s basketball record for most points in a half. The previous record was Long Beach State’s 80 points in 1987. U.Conn.’s 88-point win is the second-largest in NCAA men’s or women’s tournament history, behind Baylor women’s basketball’s 89-point win against Texas Southern last year.  With 140 total points, U-Conn. set the new NCAA-tournament single-game record for points in a game, bettering Alabama’s record of 121 points, set in 1995 in four overtimes. U-Conn. only needed regulation to set the record. With the win, U-Conn improved to 33-0 and 26-2 in first-round games; the Huskies haven’t lost in the opening round since 1993. Before Saturday’s blowout, U-Conn. had won its opening-round game by a whopping average of 42 points. By the first quarter, the Huskies had already scored 55 points against St. Francis, breaking their own program record for the most points in any quarter of an NCAA women’s tournament game. The record was set two years ago in the first round when the Huskies scored 41 against Robert Morris.  As U-Conn. heads to the next round, the only question will be how much the Huskies will win by in their second game of the tournament. At this point, there most likely isn’t a team that can take down the Huskies. U-Conn.’s latest rout has once again brought up the debate over whether the Huskies’ dominance is bad for the sport. Some see the blowouts as a detriment to the growth of the women’s game. Some see the dominance as basketball in its purest form. So which is it? There isn’t a clear answer, but with Auriemma at the helm and the influx of talent year after year, why waste it?  Read more college basketball: sports  early-lead Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. UMBC proved again that in sports, not even history goes undefeated Sister Jean will pray for Loyola vs. Tennessee. But she’ll do the scouting herself. ‘What is UMBC? We’re for real.’ For one graduate, victory, validation and Natty Boh. As Tar Heels start chase for history, they focus on a little fun