ST. LOUIS — Collin Sexton and Alabama didn’t so much engineer an upset or a second-half dismantling of Auburn as much as they made a series of statements Friday afternoon: The Crimson Tide belongs in the NCAA tournament, and Sexton has stolen the crown from Oklahoma’s Trae Young as America’s most exciting freshman point guard. Alabama, which entered the Southeastern Conference tournament having lost its final five regular season games and any convincing shot at an NCAA tournament berth, has now spent consecutive afternoons taking down better teams. The Tide surprised Texas A&M a day earlier, Sexton draining a contested floater as time expired, and the point it made Friday has suddenly made Alabama and its best player the talk of college basketball. [March Madness winners and losers: Updated NCAA tournament bracket projection] On Friday, the Tide didn’t just beat Auburn, 81-63, sending home the tournament’s top seed and the winner of the conference’s regular season championship. It responded explosively to a 10-point halftime deficit, lit the fuse on what became a 32-5 run, sent Auburn Coach Bruce Pearl through a wave of emotions — confusion, resigned laughter, anger after the final horn — as part of a 20-minute destruction. “When they made their run,” Pearl said after a game that set up an unlikely but suddenly intriguing tournament semifinal pairing Kentucky against Alabama, “I could just see that it bothered us more than it should have.” It probably didn’t help that Sexton was having so much fun out there. On Friday, the skilled and versatile guard introduced — or, depending how closely you follow extremely talented and slightly strange point guards, reintroduced — himself to the nation. He’s a player who refuses to participate in social media, calling it a “waste of time” in a 2017 Players Tribune piece in which he also described his 300-made-jump-shots-a-day work ethic; a competitive fire so hot that he can’t play his brother one-on-one without fighting; the way he turned himself from unranked high school player to top-10 national recruit and McDonald’s all-American. He high-fives teammates who aren’t there, engages in on-court staring contests, talks to himself to remind himself how to correct mistakes. He also talks to others, and he spewed so much trash in a game against Minnesota last November, a brawl broke out. It led to technical fouls, ejections and an entirely bizarre final 10 minutes in which Sexton was one of three Crimson Tide players facing five from Minnesota. And Alabama, at the time a top 25 team getting 40 points from Sexton, almost won anyway. On Friday, he was quieter but no less memorable. And, really, no less weird. He pumped his fist after missing free throws, rode a stationary bike after Coach Avery Johnson removed his starters, punctuated a fast break by going behind-the-back and lobbing a pass over a defender to set up forward Donta Hill’s dunk. “He told me at half court, he’s coming,” Sexton said of Hill, whose dunk left Pearl chuckling to himself near the Auburn bench, because what could he do to stop this train? “So I’m going to find a way to give it to him, reward him for running.” The Tigers, one of the nation’s most surprising teams, looked powerless during those final 20 minutes — even after building a 41-31 halftime lead. Sexton scored 21 of his 31 points in the second half, and after halftime Auburn missed its first 13 shots from the field — a drought of more than 10 minutes. Johnson, himself a former NBA point guard, said he altered his attack on Auburn’s zone defense and switched his own defense to man-to-man. Whatever he did, or whatever the Tigers couldn’t do, or the energy Sexton injected into his team, it all worked. “Once we got stops,” he said, “Coach told us to just run. And when I run, my teammates found me, and I was open. They told me, every time I’m open, just shoot it. Don’t worry about missing or anything else.” Which is what Oklahoma used to tell Young, who two months ago was seen as the engine of an NCAA tournament lock and a likely lottery pick in the NBA draft. But Young faded, and so did the Sooners, who were eliminated in the first round of the Big 12 tournament. Sexton, though, seems to be almost single-handedly pushing his team deeper into March, reminding pro scouts why he’s the more NBA-ready point guard, giving the postseason its first great character. “Sometimes, man, life is just funny,” Johnson said after his team’s dramatic and memorable response Friday. “Here we are finishing the regular season kind of a little bit down. … But sometimes, man, you just find yourself in a place and it’s painful.” And sometimes, teams and players wind up discovering themselves in those situations, getting stronger and more dangerous and more interesting during a month that loves underdogs and supermen. More college basketball: N.C. State subpoenaed in FBI’s college basketball probe Is the FBI cleaning up college basketball, or wasting its time? Why isn’t the NCAA tournament selection show on CBS? Where did it go? Michael Porter Jr. and Missouri are the biggest mystery of March Madness sports  sports Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. Jenkins: Virginia basketball isn’t a highlight reel. It’s a how-to video. Bennett and Virginia aren’t for everyone, but ‘it’s okay to be different’ Tournament schedules and updates: ACC | Big East | Big 12 | Pac-12 | SEC