Have you ever wondered what it would be like — and how much money it would cost — to travel more than 300 miles across four states via Uber? Well, a young man from New Jersey can tell you. Kenneth Bachman, from Sewell, N.J., was visiting friends late last week near West Virginia University and had been drinking at a fraternity party. Many would argue that he did the responsible thing and ordered an Uber to take him home. The only problem? Home was a five-hour ride away. No fear! His driver was up to the task — for the right price: a whopping $1,635.93. “We went to a frat party and then went to the bar. I was getting drinks all night. I probably spent, like, $200 at the bar after already drinking all day,” Bachman told CBS Philly of his experience on Friday. “Basically, I kind of just blacked out. The last thing I remember was being at the bar, and then I just woke up in the Uber next to an older dude telling me I was an hour out from Jersey.” “I was just like … ‘That’s crazy. Like, why did you agree to, like, take me to New Jersey from West Virginia?’ ” Bachman told the station about the sobering moment when he realized what he had done. [ First came UberPool. Now there’s an even cheaper option, but it requires some extra effort. ] It’s unclear who holds the record for the longest trip via a car-sharing service. In the summer, three Chinese professionals called an Uber to take them from the Dallas-Fort Worth area to Nashville when their connecting flight was canceled, ABC affiliate WFAA reported at the time. That’s more than 650 miles — and the trip took more than 11 hours, according to the station. When asked about Bachman’s Uber adventure, a spokeswoman for the ride-hailing company confirmed to The Washington Post that the high-priced trip did occur, and that the driver took the passenger to the destination he requested. Uber reached out to the passenger, the spokeswoman said, and he agreed to pay the fare. Bachman told CBS Philly that he suspects the ride would have cost about $800 had he ordered a standard Uber — but he ordered the more expensive UberXL. Looking back on it, he told the station, “I guess it’s kind of embarrassing.” local  gridlock Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. This report has been updated. Read more: Uber Eats driver charged with murder in the shooting death of a customer, police say Why a wealthy Michigan frat boy unleashed an expletive-laden rant against his Uber driver ‘She’s getting violent’: Miami doctor suspended after attack on Uber driver