The Washington region awoke Wednesday to a thin coating of snow and ice with more snow expected as the calendar welcomed spring but the weather brought another dose of winter. Predictions of wet snow of up to eight inches north of the District prompted closings for the federal government and many area schools, and widespread travel delays. [Wintry weather brings closures Wednesday in the D.C. region] Forecasters were calling for significant levels of wet snow to hit the D.C. area Wednesday as temperatures were expected to remain at or below freezing on the first full day of spring. Several counties in parts of northern and western Maryland were under snow emergency plans. Early Wednesday, the icy conditions caused troubles on some major highways. In Maryland, a tractor trailer jackknifed along Interstate 95 north near MD 32 in Howard County, causing part of the highway to shutdown. And another crash that involved multiple vehicles in Anne Arundel County caused parts of MD 295 north near Interstate 195 to shut down parts of the roadway. There were no major crashes on busy travel routes in Northern Virginia or the District. In Northern Virginia, HOV restrictions on Interstates 395 and 66 were lifted — both inside and outside the Capital Beltway because of the weather. And the tolls along Interstate 66 inside the Beltway were suspended, transportation officials said. [Forecast: Spring arrives with snow then cold through weekend] Transportation officials warned motorists and pedestrians to slow down, allow extra time and use caution as roads may be slick from precipitation. There were also warnings to commuters that while conditions may seem okay now they “will change rapidly as precipitation moves back in,” according to the Maryland Transportation Authority. “What you encounter leaving out, may be much different on your return trip,” the transportation agency said on Twitter. “If possible consider canceling travel plans.”  Officials warned commuters to not go out or at least postpone their travel if possible so road crews could clear interstates and streets. On Metro, the transit agency said it was running its rail service on a “modified weekday schedule,” meaning trains would be running every 10 to 12 minutes. And Metrobus service was operating on a “modified snow plan” so riders should expect waits and delays. Amtrak was running its trains along the Northeast Corridor on a “modified service” schedule. Commuter train services of MARC and Virginia Railway Express are canceled for the day. For air travelers, more than 3,300 flights into and out of the U.S. were canceled or delayed, according to FlightAware.com. At the D.C. area’s three airports, more than flights were delayed or canceled. Area residents were also warned that as snow is expected to hit the region for the rest of the day that power lines could be impacted and to not touch any downed wires.  The National Zoo said that due to the inclement weather it would be closed for the day. Local forecasters are predicting between three to five inches in the Washington region and five to seven inches in the Baltimore area.