BOSTON — Residents along the East Coast on Friday battened down as heavy rain and gusting winds pummeled states from Maine to Virginia. The nor’easter was predicted to bring damaging winds — up to hurricane strength in some areas — along the Atlantic through Friday, according to the National Weather Service, which issued numerous severe-weather warnings and advisories lasting into Saturday. As of Friday morning, hundreds of scheduled flights out of New York, Boston and Washington airports had been delayed or canceled. Amtrak said power outages were affecting its Northeast Corridor train service. national  post-nation Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false About US newsletter Candid conversations about identity in 21st-century America Please provide a valid email address. Portions of New York state saw more than a foot of snow Thursday night, while heavy rain was predicted for coastal areas from New Jersey to eastern Massachusetts, the Weather Service said, as it warned of coastal and inland flooding. “Widespread high wind speeds will persist through the late morning and afternoon hours today as the system moves offshore the East Coast,” the Weather Service said. “Inland flooding from excessive rainfall and coastal flooding from high seas/storm surge will impact much of the area from New Jersey to Massachusetts.” Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker (R) warned residents Thursday night that the storm was shaping up to be more severe than the “bomb cyclone” that caused massive flooding in the state’s shoreline communities on Jan. 4. “If you live in an area that is told to evacuate, we strongly encourage you do so first thing Friday AM,” Baker tweeted Thursday night. “Staying in homes that are in flood prone areas puts you & first responders at risk.” On Friday morning, the winds in Boston kept people fighting with their umbrellas; most decided it wasn’t worth the fight and just pulled their hoods closer. A woman walking and texting in front of the John F. Kennedy Federal Building on New Sudbury Street almost lost her blue-flowered umbrella and her balance to a particularly strong gust. Despite the weather, some die-hard bikers still peddled to work, and a couple even kept to their morning jog. It was a terrible day to be a Boston tourist. The courtyard of Faneuil Hall was deserted, and many of the city’s biggest attractions were closed. Michael Thompson of Arlington, Mass., had made it all the way to the vast doors of the New England Aquarium with his wife, their daughter and three grandchildren from New Hampshire — before realizing it was wasn’t open. Water from Boston Harbor lapped against the edge of the aquarium’s Imax theater with every gust of wind. “Now, we’ll have to check on the Children’s Museum,” Thompson told his soaked clan. But that museum was closed, too. He suggested the Museum of Fine Arts next, but was overruled by 6-year-old Aubrey Roberts, who preferred a play space near her grandparents’ house. “Let’s go!” Thompson’s son-in-law Blake Roberts was annoyed that an indoor attraction would be closed in the rain. He was told the aquarium had closed out of concern that some patrons would have trouble getting out. “Get a bigger car,” said his wife, Joanna Roberts. “Get a duck boat,” her father added. Hopeful visitors kept turning up at the aquarium, only to be disappointed. Its nearby garage had sandbagged its entrances. The street in front of the Marriott Long Wharf next door had flooded, a crosswalk hidden under a rush of water. Law enforcement agencies in several Boston area cities warned residents about flooded roads and downed power lines. Coastal Massachusetts was set to bear the brunt of the storm, with hurricane-strength winds in excess of 70 mph predicted for several areas in Cape Cod. Michelle Shaffer, 45, told the Associated Press she evacuated her coastal town of Hull, Mass., on Thursday night, in part because she lost her appliances under five feet of water during the last big storm. “I have a new washer, and my boyfriend just built a wooden platform for it. We got a couple of sump pumps,” Shaffer told the AP. “This storm is going to be worse because it’s going over three high tides.” In the Washington area, high winds wreaked havoc on the Friday morning commute. A pilot landing at Dulles International Airport Friday morning reported a “very bumpy” descent in the high winds. “PRETTY MUCH EVERY ONE ON THE PLANE THREW UP,” the official pilot report stated. “PILOTS WERE ON THE VERGE OF THROWING UP.” More than 100,000 customers were left without power in the D.C. region after Thursday night, and numerous downed trees were reported in local neighborhoods and roads. The Office of Personnel Management announced that all federal offices in the D.C. area would be closed Friday. Nearly two dozen area school districts canceled classes, and Smithsonian museums and zoo were closed for the day. At the Washington Monument, where flags had been flying at half-staff to honor Rev. Billy Graham, at least half a dozen flags appeared tattered by the wind. The snow and rain were predicted to taper off by late Friday or Saturday morning as the storm system drifted farther out into the Atlantic Ocean, the Weather Service said. This post has been updated. Read more: Winds are howling and the water is rising as nor’easter bears down Once-in-a-generation flooding possible in Boston — for the second time this year No, cold weather doesn’t disprove climate change