A week before Glenn Tyndell fatally shot a Prince George’s corporal, 14 officers surrounded Tyndell’s home after his estranged wife said he was at the house with a long gun, but police left without reaching Tyndell, according to court files and police. The wife had been issued a protective order shortly after midnight on Feb. 15 following a Valentine’s Day dispute with Tyndell, but the order had yet to be served on Tyndell when police were called back to the home for a second dispute less than an hour later, according to county Police Chief Hank Stawinski. New details surrounding Tyndell’s history of domestic incidents emerged in court filings unsealed Thursday as events preceding the death of Cpl. Mujahid Ramzziddin are under scrutiny. Ramzziddin was a neighbor of the Tyndells in Brandywine and off duty when he was fatally shot the morning of Feb. 21, after Joanne Tyndell had asked for his presence as she was moving belongings out of her home and having locks changed following the recent round of violent arguments with her husband in the presence of their children. Glenn Tyndell appeared outside the home as locksmiths were working and shot Ramzziddin five times with a shotgun, police have said. Tyndell fled and later was killed by pursuing officers. The back-to-back arguments that caused police to swarm the neighborhood Feb. 15 after calls from Joanne Tyndell occurred rapidly, Stawinski said. Stawinski said officers had been to the house on Feb. 14 shortly before 9 p.m., after Tyndell’s wife reported her husband had been pushing, shoving and grabbing her in their home. Police entered the house but a search for Tyndell came up clear with no sign of him, Stawinski said Thursday. Police advised Joanne Tyndell to request a protective order, which she did, and also filed assault charges after 10:30 p.m., Stawinski said. Shortly after midnight on Feb. 15, a protective order was issued, the chief said. By then, the police and Joanne Tyndell’s accounts show, she had called for police again after coming back to her house with her two children and being confronted by Tyndell on the porch with a long gun. [Man who killed police officer was ordered by courts to give up guns three times] She tried to calm Tyndell, her court filings said, as he told her that “. . . I have nothing to lose, but I’m not going to lose my family.” She got away from the house with her children and summoned police from a nearby community center. Fourteen police officers arrived by about 1:20 a.m. and surrounded the home for nearly two hours, calling out to Tyndell on a speaker system to emerge, Stawinski said. Officers did not see Tyndell’s vehicle in the garage, and with no evidence that he was still at the house, police did not enter as they had a few hours earlier late on Valentine’s Day, the chief said. “He poses no immediate threat to the victim or her family because she is with us and at this point she tells us she is not going to be in the house,” Stawinski said Thursday, explaining the police decision. “We cleared the house two hours ago and there was no crime that would allow us to force entry into that home.” Stawinski said officers found Tyndell’s car a few blocks away and searched the neighborhood, but still didn’t find Tyndell. In court filings, Joanne Tyndell said that when police left they told her they “would try again another time.” Joanne Tyndell returned to court Feb. 20, when she asked for a second protective order, relating to the heated Feb. 15 confrontation with her husband. She said in those files that Tyndell was holding a gun on the porch on Feb. 15but never pointed the weapon at her or her children or threatened their lives, her Feb. 20 court statement shows. [Prince George’s County officer killed trying to aid woman in domestic disturbance, county says] Tyndell evaded law enforcement for a week as multiple attempts were made to serve the protective order on him, Stawinski said. The chief said he had already asked his top command staff to start an inquiry into the events leading to Ramzziddin’s shooting. Read more: Woman offers thanks for Md. officer who died helping her during domestic dispute  Former Maryland lawmaker guilty of taking cash bribes for his vote in liquor law  She pointed a gun at police and asked to die. They used drones to intercede.  One illegal gun. 12 weeks. A dozen criminal acts. The rapid cycle of gun violence.