Augie Garrido, a college baseball coach whose Zenlike coaching style, mixed with old-school profanity, led to five national championships and the most victories in his sport of any coach in history, died March 15 in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 79. He had complications from a stroke. His death was announced by the University of Texas, where he coached from 1997 to 2016. A college coach for 48 years, Mr. Garrido gained renown in the 1970s when he transformed a commuter school in suburban Los Angeles — California State University at Fullerton — into a national power in baseball. During his first season at Fullerton, in 1973, Mr. Garrido found conditions so dismal that he had to build a backstop at the baseball field. Two years later, Cal State Fullerton played its first season in Division I, college baseball’s highest classification. “I remember,” he told the Los Angeles Times in 1995, “the organist came up to me and asked if she could have a copy of the music for our fight song. I remember saying, ‘I don’t think we have a fight song. I’m not sure we even have a band.’ ” Because of Fullerton’s location in Orange County, the organist chose to play “It’s a Small World,” leading some opponents to mock the school as “Cal State Disneyland.” Nevertheless, Mr. Garrido’s team upset longtime power Southern California in 1975 to advance to the College World Series in Omaha, as Mr. Garrido won the first of six awards as national coach of the year. In 1979, he led his Titans to the national championship. He went on to win two more NCAA titles at Cal State Fullerton, in 1984 and 1995, then two more with Texas, in 2002 and 2005. Several of his players, including Phil Nevin, Mark Kotsay, Huston Street, Brandon Belt and Corey Knebel, went on to distinguished careers in the major leagues. When Mr. Garrido stepped down after the 2016 season with Texas, he had 1,975 coaching victories, against 952 losses and nine ties. (Florida State Coach Mike Martin, after a victory Saturday, is now 17 wins away from Mr. Garrido’s record.) “Baseball isn’t rocket science,” Mr. Garrido said in 2005. “Nine is the highest number you deal with.” His approach seemed to be a blend of the philosophical teacher and the demanding drill sergeant of the diamond. “It’s my job to help players find balance in their lives,” he told Texas Sports magazine. “I want to help them help themselves become what they want to be through the fundamentals of baseball. Baseball is nothing more than another classroom in the educational process.” Nonetheless, when his teams played poorly, he sometimes responded with blue-language tirades that went on for minutes. Some of them were featured in a 2008 documentary, “Inning by Inning: A Portrait of a Coach,” by filmmaker Richard Linklater. In the film, Mr. Garrido speaks of trying to bring out an almost spiritual self-mastery in his players. “The demon is fear. The warrior is confidence, and they battle it out,” he said. “Fear is a stronger power than confidence. Confidence has to fight like mad to win the battle against fear.” Mr. Garrido’s teams were invariably well prepared, known especially for their strong pitching and defense. Yet he sometimes relied on instinct and hunches. In the 1984 College World Series, Mr. Garrido unexpectedly tapped Eddie Delzer — “133 pounds when he has weights in his pockets,” Mr. Garrido said — to pitch the championship game. The 5-foot-6 Delzer, whose father had recently died, shut down Texas for seven innings, as Cal State Fullerton won the national title, 3-1. At other times, Mr. Garrido’s decisions received scrutiny and derision. In 2004, when his Texas Longhorns lost the championship game to his old team, Cal State Fullerton, Mr. Garrido and his players did not return to the field for the presentation of trophies. “They disgraced themselves. They disgraced their school,” Houston Chronicle sports columnist Richard Justice wrote. Mr. Garrido apologized, saying he misunderstood the instructions for the postgame ceremony. He was also second-guessed in 2009, when one of his pitchers, Austin Wood, threw 12⅓ innings during a 25-inning game in the College World Series. Wood’s 169 pitches were considered grossly excessive by many observers, who feared the overuse could damage his future in baseball. “If he gets a sore arm in the next 10 years,” Mr. Garrido said afterward, “it will be my fault.” Persistent arm trouble forced Wood to retire from baseball at 25. August Edmun Garrido Jr. was born Feb. 6, 1939, in Vallejo, Calif. His father worked in a shipyard and played fast-pitch baseball. While attending California State University at Fresno, Mr. Garrido appeared in the 1959 College World Series. He graduated in 1961, then played six years of Minor League Baseball as an infielder in the Cleveland Indians organization. He began coaching at San Francisco State University, then spent three years at California Polytechnic State University at Luis Obispo before taking over at Cal State Fullerton. From 1988 to 1990, Mr. Garrido moved to the University of Illinois, where he won two Big Ten titles, before returning to Fullerton from 1991 to 1996. He also was a close friend of actor Kevin Costner, a Cal State Fullerton graduate. Costner said he modeled some of his mannerisms and dialogue in the baseball films “Bull Durham” and “Field of Dreams” on his observations of Mr. Garrido. In Costner’s 1999 film “For the Love of the Game,” Mr. Garrido had a role as manager of the New York Yankees. In 2011, Mr. Garrido wrote “Life Is Yours to Win: Lessons Forged from the Purpose, Passion, and Magic of Baseball.” His marriages to Necia Marie Gelker and Teresa Pruitt ended in divorce. Survivors include his wife, the former Jeannie Grass of Newport Beach, and a daughter. Mr. Garrido led 15 teams to the College World Series — the second most of any coach — with his final appearance coming in 2014 with Texas. Just two years later, the winningest coach in college baseball was forced out after his Longhorn team finished with a losing record of 25-32. “Trails end, baby,” Mr. Garrido said. “They all end.” Read more  Washington Post obituaries  Michael Getler, Washington Post editor who became incisive in-house media critic, dies at 82 Joaquin Avila, civil rights lawyer involved in significant court victories for Hispanics, dies at 69 Nokie Edwards, influential lead guitarist of the Ventures, dies at 82