About 40 years ago, Neil Kahanovitz was somewhere in Texas, an itinerant circus performer practicing his trampoline routine. “For whatever reason, things didn’t work out and I landed directly on my head,” he said. Kahanovitz lay on his back, his entire body lit up with pain. “It was like someone plugged me into an electrical outlet,” he said. “I think in football, they call them stingers. . . . It was a strange feeling.” Strange because for an instant, Kahanovitz wondered if he had just paralyzed himself, but also strange because he was getting firsthand experience with the body’s central nervous system, something that until then he had only read about in textbooks or teased out from cadavers. Kahanovitz was in his final year of medical school, anticipating a future as a spine surgeon. “I think that’s the first time I ever thought to myself that this is really dangerous,” he said. “You need to be careful.” It turned out that Kahanovitz was fine, just shaken up. He finished medical school. In the future, the Maryland boy who had grown up loving circuses and appearing with them would trade his leotard for a pair of scrubs and restrict his performances to the operating room, not the big top. And then in February 2017, Kahanovitz, now retired, stepped back into the ring: He led a group of investors that bought the Big Apple Circus, then in bankruptcy. Big Apple is at National Harbor through April 1. Kahanovitz grew up in Pikesville, Md., outside of Baltimore, where he took trampoline lessons at the Jewish Community Center. “Nobody in my family had ever been in medicine, ever been in entertainment, but for some reason, when people asked me what I wanted to be when I was a kid, I would tell them, ‘I want to be an orthopedic surgeon and I want to be in the circus,’ ” said Kahanovitz, 68. “In elementary school, I was checking out books on how to build a trapeze in my back yard and how to put on clown makeup. I was absolutely fascinated with the circus.” That fascination only intensified when he cut high school one day after spotting the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey train parked outside of Baltimore in preparation for the circus’s annual run. “I snuck into the Civic Center when they were setting up,” he said. “The best analogy is to say I walked from a black-and-white movie into a world of Technicolor. There were no performances. People were just setting up the rigging and bringing in the flooring. But it was just an absolutely magical moment for me.” Kahanovitz started out selling concessions for the Clyde Beatty-Cole Bros. Circus. He moved up to clown, then became part of a three-person trampoline act. He dabbled with trapeze. Kahanovitz went to the University of Maryland for medical school. He was able to convince the dean that in his last two years — a time when students focus on electives — he would attend schools throughout the country that coincided with circus performances. Eventually, he had to choose between his two loves. “People used to ask me what I was better at,” Kahanovitz said. “I would say, ‘I’m the best circus performer in medicine today.’ When it came to the skill of my craft, I was a far better surgeon than I was a circus performer.” Kahanovitz practiced in Washington for a few years, operating on three Supreme Court justices (Anthony M. Kennedy, Byron R. White and William H. Rehnquist) and serving as the doctor for the Cirque du Soleil during its area appearances. Times are tough for the American circus. Ringling Bros. is gone. Big Apple was in trouble. When it came on the market, Kahanovitz and others stepped in. Among the first things they had to deal with: revelations that in 2004, Barry Lubin, the clown who as Grandma was the face of Big Apple, had pressured a 16-year-old aerialist to pose for pornographic photos. Lubin resigned. Said Kahanovitz: “Even though it happened long, long before we had anything to do with [Big Apple], we just don’t tolerate that activity or behavior. There was no doubt that once we were made aware, he was gone and will never return to the Big Apple Circus.” I asked Kahanovitz if there was any overlap between being a successful aerialist and a top-notch spine surgeon. His answer: Both require an ability to focus, to put out of your mind all extraneous distractions. And there’s this: “My first performing job was as the clown, doing comedy,” he said. “I was the guy who fell through the [trampoline] springs, who lost his pants. I always tell people: ‘Look, if things are not going well, if you’re not getting a laugh, drop your pants.’ That always gets the laugh.” local   Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Must Reads newsletter 5 stories you can't afford to miss, every Saturday. Please provide a valid email address. I’m guessing he never tried that in the OR. Twitter: @johnkelly  For previous columns, visit washingtonpost.com/people/john-kelly. 