EISENHÜTTENSTADT, Germany — This city was built to make steel. Its communist founding fathers designed Eisenhüttenstadt in the 1950s as a vision of East Germany’s glorious future, with austere concrete apartments, tidy storefronts and elaborate murals celebrating the virtues of the working man all arrayed around a mega-factory that churned out steel for use across the Eastern Bloc. But the future didn’t last. The fall of the Berlin Wall brought a rush of capitalism — and a world of trouble for a small city on the Polish border that struggled to compete in a global market. Now Eisenhüttenstadt — the name means Iron Factory City, a reference to steel’s precursor — faces another potential jolt from far beyond its borders: tariffs imposed by President Trump that threaten to spark a trade war. “Everyone’s a little worried,” said Frank Balzer, a 35-year veteran of the factory and, since January, the city’s mayor. “I just came back from the hospital, and the doctor asked: ‘What does this mean for steel? Will the factory be closed?’ ” Yet as much as Trump’s tariffs have fueled anxiety, they also have stirred empathy. Among some current and former workers, there’s hunger for a government that protects them the way the old East German government used to — and the way they see Trump trying to do for U.S. workers. “ ‘America First’ is good,” said Max Frenzel, a bearded and brawny 67-year-old who recently retired from the factory after 43 years. “Otherwise, you lose jobs. There’s always someone who will produce goods for less.” Most economists disagree that protectionism is the answer. So do German union, industry and political leaders, all of whom have spoken out in recent days against the U.S. president’s plans to impose steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. “The actions of the U.S. breach the rules of the World Trade Organization and endanger jobs — not only in Germany,” Jörg Hofmann, chair of Germany’s metals union, said in a statement this week. “A trade war has no winner.” European Union Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom and German Chancellor Angela Merkel each said Friday that they hoped the 28-nation bloc would be exempt from Trump’s tariffs, scheduled to go into effect in two weeks. Even if it’s not, Germany’s vaunted steel industry has limited direct exposure. Although it is the eighth-largest source of steel imports for the United States, the percentage of its steel exports bound for the United States is in the low single digits. Among German producers, “there’s no panic about it,” said Sabine Stephan, an expert at the Dusseldorf-based Macroeconomic Policy Institute. But Stephan said there is concern that the tariffs — rolled out by Trump at an announcement with 10 American metal workers at the White House on Thursday — could be just the beginning of a broader series of tit-for-tat measures that harm trade between the United States and its allies. “If this was just a single event — the tariffs — no one would talk about it,” Stephan said. “But the signal is that something quite fundamental could change between U.S. and E.U. importers and exporters.” That potential helps explain why Balzer, the mayor of Eisenhüttenstadt, cannot be entirely reassuring when residents ask him if their city’s factory is at risk. “There are no immediate consequences, especially because most of the factory’s markets are in Germany or Eastern Europe,” he said, sitting in a meeting room of Eisenhüttenstadt’s hulking city hall. “But I can’t say what the consequences will be in the long term.” City residents are used to geopolitics intruding locally. The city got its start in 1950 because the new nation of East Germany needed steel plants to compensate for the ones lost behind the border with West Germany after the end of World War II. What once were empty flatlands along the western bank of the Oder River were transformed within years into a centrally planned city originally known as Stalinstadt. The city’s purpose was simple: The nations behind the Iron Curtain needed steel, and Stalinstadt would provide giant coils of it for use in cars, washing machines and more. At its peak, the steel factory employed more than 11,000 people. Workers were paid well, with new employees offered signing bonuses, relocation expenses and furniture for their freshly built concrete-block apartments. “They even bought you your curtains,” said Frenzel, who started as a 16-year-old apprentice. But when East Germany dissolved in 1990 amid the collapse of communism across Eastern Europe, the factory in what by then was known as Eisenhüttenstadt was left vulnerable. After decades inside the cocoon of a state-run industry, it was inefficient and unprofitable. A succession of owners — Belgian, Spanish, French and Indian conglomerates among them — tried to turn it around. For years, the factory was haunted by rumors of imminent closure. Today it’s stable — but far smaller than in its communist heyday, at just 2,500 employees. The city has felt the effects, with half of its population disappearing in the years since German reunification. The impact is evident. A once-grand hotel in the heart of downtown has become a graffiti-scarred relic. Entire blocks of apartments are being torn down because no one wants to live in them. Even at peak hours, the shopping district is eerily quiet, with sculptures of socialist icons occasionally outnumbering the live people. “The factory produces three times as much steel as it used to,” Frenzel noted ruefully. “And the city is empty.” As he spoke, he clutched his prized iPhone X — manufactured, he pointed out, in China — and sipped on a frothy beer in a dark, mostly empty Irish pub alongside his wife, Anna Neumann. The couple said they don’t long for the old days, noting the oppression and state control that came with the relative stability of East Germany’s managed economy. But they also said they don’t see anything wrong with a president trying to protect his citizens from the caprice of global markets that know no national loyalties. “I’d be happy if someone said, ‘Our country first,’ ” said Neumann, a retired English teacher. Balzer, the mayor, said he can understand the appeal. But it’s not that simple. “These days, industries and nations are so dependent on each other,” he said. Any attempt to erect trade barriers, he said, could mean “victims on all sides.” world europe  Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false World News Email Alerts Breaking news from around the world. Please provide a valid email address. But Balzer, 54 with a boyish face and graying hair, said that he’s not counting on that. His grandfather helped build the factory. His father worked in its IT department. He personally rose from a factory mechanic to become a leader of the plant’s worker council. Two of his children work there, and he fully intends for a fifth generation to join the family tradition — whatever changes the outside world may bring. “One day,” he said, “I hope that my three grandchildren will also work there.” Read more Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news