President Trump cut out for Easter weekend a bit early, heading to his company’s private Mar-a-Lago retreat in Palm Beach, Fla., on Thursday evening after a campaign-style rally in Ohio. On the morning of Good Friday, he got up and went to what he no doubt considers an almost-sacred space: The immaculate greens and fairways of Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach. It was, by our count, the 85th day of his 435-day-old presidency that Trump has spent time playing golf. By now it’s background noise to point out that Trump insisted repeatedly on the campaign trail that he would rarely, if ever, play golf once he became president. That he’s played on average once every 5.1 days seems to undercut that particular bit of rhetoric. (Since it is invariably asked how that rate of play compares with Barack Obama, who Trump regularly maligned for the frequency of his golf outings: Obama played once every 8.8 days while president. Meaning that over the course of 500 days, Obama would have played 57 times and Trump 98.) As president, Trump has played only once at a course that wasn’t owned by the Trump Organization. That was in November, when Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took him out for a round in Japan. The 84 other rounds have been at Trump properties, which he’s visited on all or part of 138 days of his presidency. (That’s a rate of once every 3.1 days.) Here are all of them. With Trump’s sojourns to the links so well established, we got to wondering: What was Trump doing on the weekend days that he didn’t play golf? How many were there? Why didn’t he go out to Trump International or, if he was in Washington, the Trump course in Sterling, Va.? What could have kept him away? The top-line numbers are these: So what of those 60 days when he didn’t play? They break down like this: That leaves nine other days. On one, May 7, 2017, Trump was at his private club in Bedminster, N.J., where it’s harder to know whether he’s playing or not. (At Mar-a-Lago and from the White House, he has to travel out of the compound, allowing the media to know what he’s doing.) politics  politics Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. On eight of those days, highlighted below, the weather was good enough to play golf and Trump’s calendar was free but — he didn’t play. On those days, he tweeted a combined 56 times. So he kept busy.