Dangerously high winds struck the Washington region Friday, as part of a major storm that wrecked havoc along the East Coast with widespread power outages, intermittent snow and coastal flooding from New York to Virginia. In Washington, the federal government closed for the day, along with most area school districts, including Arlington, Fairfax, Montgomery and Loudoun counties. District of Columbia Public Schools were already closed Friday for parent-teacher conferences but later cancelled those as well. By mid-day Friday, about 450,000 customers were without electric power in the Washington region. Antrak had suspended train service along the Northeast Corridor, at least until mid-afternoon. The storm hit the region early Friday morning and is expected to last until early Saturday evening. At times, hurricane-like wind gusts hit 60 mph to 70 mph. But by mid-day Friday they had subsided to the 35 mph to 40 mph range. [UDPATES: Hazardous winds to 60-plus mph likely into tonight with downed trees and outages] “We’ve had the most extreme bursts of winds already,” by mid-day Friday, said Jason Samenow of The Washington Post’s Capital Weather Gang. But he cautioned that winds could ramp up Friday afternoon and urged pedestrians and drivers to use caution. By the time the storm ends Saturday evening, parts of Massachusetts along the coast are expected to see flooding and heavy snow could fall in parts of western New York and northern Pennsylvania. On Friday, strong, hurricane-like winds hit the mid-Atlantic, forcing construction workers to have to get off scaffolding at the Washington National Cathedral. A tractor trailer overturned on the Tydings Bridge in Maryland, closing a portion of Interstate 95 in both directions. Travel was restricted at times on the Chesapeake Bay Bridge due to the high winds. Air travel was a mess, with thousands of flights canceled along the East Coast. At noon Friday, there was a short temporary ground stop for flights at Dulles International Airport due to the weather. At 11:39 a.m., wind gusts were reported to hit 71 mph at Dulles, according to the National Weather Service. No weather-related fatalities on roadways had been reported in the D.C. region as of mid-day. Forecasters have said the storm could be the most destructive one in decades for some along the East Coast. The National Weather Service has called it a life and death situation. Some 80 million people were expected to be affected, according to forecasters. Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker (R) activated 200 National Guard members to help with the storm. In the District, the National Zoo, Library of Congress, Smithsonian museums and the National Gallery of Art closed for the day because of the extreme winds. [A powerful storm is gearing up to slam the Northeast, and it could topple records] Utility company officials said it was hard to estimate when all their customers would have power restored. “The reality is this wind system is going to be threatening our area for several hours,” said Le-Ha Anderson, a spokeswoman for Dominion Energy. The power company has 2.5 million customers, 256,000 of them in Northern Virginia. Anderson said crews were working as quickly as possible, but couldn’t go up in bucket trucks or climb poles in dangerous wind conditions. “Just as quickly as our crews are restoring power,” Anderson said, “we’re seeing additional outages because the winds aren’t dying down.” Metro ran its trains more slowly above ground because of the high winds. And at one point, there were delays on three rail lines after a downed tree on the Green Line and troubles with power that affected the Yellow and Blue lines. [Weather wreaks havoc for commuters as Metro warns of delays, VRE and MARC cancel service] Ridership on Metro was down 57 percent at 9 a.m. Friday, compared to the same time a week ago, according to Dan Stessel, a Metro spokesman. He said the ridership levels were “consistent with what we see in a snowstorm,” and noted that fewer people were traveling because the federal government and many area schools were closed. Metro advised users of its MetroAccess ride service to cancel any trips that were not essential for Friday. Commuter rail services — MARC and Virginia Railway Express — shut down their trains for the day. Amtrak also shut down its Northeast Corridor service at least temporarily at 12:20 p.m. because of downed trees. More than 2,300 flights had been cancelled in the U.S. by mid-day Friday, most in the Northeast. One plane coming into Dulles Friday morning had a particularly turbulent landing, according to the National Weather Service’s aviation center. Many onboard, including the pilots, felt ill as the plane descended. Air travelers were advised to check with their airlines for potential cancellations and delays. At the three D.C. area airports, more than 170 flights were delayed or canceled. Officials at Baltimore-Washington International Airport warned travelers to allow more time to get to the airport due to the weather. [Destructive 60- to 70-mph ‘sting jet’ winds possible during Friday morning commute] On area roadways, there were downed wires and trees, and traffic signals were out in some areas. Drivers and pedestrians were advised to use caution. In Maryland, two crashes on the Capital Beltway near Bethesda Friday morning involved downed trees, according to the Montgomery County Fire Department. Another accident related to a fallen tree occurred along the Suitland Parkway in Prince George’s County. There were also other incidents Friday morning that were said to be weather-related, including a blown transformer in Rockville and a large tree that fell on the home of a 100-year-old resident in Kensington, Md. Pete Piringer, a spokesman for Montgomery County Fire, said the tree crashed into the woman’s house and “brought the roof and ceiling down” into the woman’s bedroom, trapping her. Firefighters rescued her and another person who was in the house. The elderly woman was taken to a hospital, according to officials. Information about the extent of her injuries and the condition of the other person was not available. Another fire at the Adventure Theater in Glen Echo, Md., was believed to have been electrical in nature, but the high winds made it difficult to fight. At one point, fire officials said some smaller ladders were blown over. No one was injured; the damage was estimated to be worth about $100,000. Montgomery County workers said they responded to calls of roughly 75 wires being down and two dozen fallen trees starting from midnight Friday until mid-day. In one incident, live wires fell onto a car at Beach Drive and Knowles Avenue in Kensington, causing the car at to catch fire. One person suffered a minor injury. [Once-in-a-generation flooding possible in Boston — for the second time this year] Prince George’s County fire officials said they normally get around 400 calls in a 24-hour period. But in an 11-hour period that ended at mid-day Friday, that number had been exceeded, they said. In Fairfax County, police said one of its officers was injured after a falling tree hit him as he was helping on a weather-related incident. He was taken to a hospital and his injuries were not life-threatening, officials said in a Twitter message. In the District, firefighters responded to three weather-related incidents on Friday. No one was seriously hurt in any of them. In one case, part of a wall collapsed at a vacant building in the Trinidad neighborhood in Northeast Washington. And in Southwest, a tree fell on top of an apartment building. D.C. fire officials said one resident was taken to a hospital for observation. local   Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. And in Southeast Washington, gusty winds pushed flames from a kitchen fire at an apartment complex into a hallway, as eight people — including an infant — were rescued from the third floor. No injuries were reported. The high wind made the rescue dangerous, D.C. fire officials said.   Lori Aratani and Luz Lazo contributed to this report.  Read more: Hundreds of flights canceled as nor’easter strikes East Coast Potentially dangerous winds roar today and tonight Weather wreaks havoc for commuters as Metro warns of delays, VRE and MARC cancel service High winds bring closings Friday in the D.C. region