Many arguments against arming teachers are reasonable enough. Critics say more guns in the classroom could lead to negligent discharges, which happened as recently as Wednesday. Or their proliferation can spark chaos for police arriving to find an adult with a gun, leading to a bloody misunderstanding. But few have taken a public stance against arming teachers by declaring that it would violate the feminine sensibilities of teachers. Alabama state Rep. Harry Shiver (R) asserted that belief, saying that guns should not be placed in the hands of “our ladies” — meaning female teachers — many of whom he believes are “scared” of firearms. “I’m not saying all [women], but in most schools, women are [the majority] of the teachers,” Shiver, a lawmaker representing a district northeast of Mobile, told AL.com in an interview published Thursday. “Some of them just don’t want to [be trained to possess firearms]. If they want to, then that’s good. But most of them don’t want to learn how to shoot like that and carry a gun.” Shiver did not respond to multiple requests for comment. [ Gun-trained teacher accidentally discharges firearm in Calif. classroom, injuring student ] The debate over arming teachers has raged since a former student entered a high school in Parkland, Fla., and killed 17 people on Valentine’s Day. President Trump waded into the discussion a week later, saying that “if the coach had a firearm in his locker when he ran at this guy … if he had a firearm he would not have had to run. He would have shot and that would be the end of it,” in a reference to slain football coach Aaron Feis. Proponents of arming teachers have also said that schools that arm teachers would deter would-be assailants, who would prefer softer targets. Emma González, a leader among vocal students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, told CBS in an episode of “60 Minutes” airing Sunday that arming teachers is a “stupid” idea. “If you’re a teacher and you have a gun, do you keep it in a lockbox or do you carry it on your person?” Gonzalez said. “If the teacher dies … and a student who’s a good student is able to get the gun, are they now held responsible to shoot the student who’s come into the door? I’m not happy with that.” Shiver was voicing opposition to a proposed bill that would designate specially trained teachers and administrators on school grounds, requiring annual training of 40 hours that would include active-shooter drills and firearm safety, AL.com reported. That bill cleared the public safety committee and was heading to the State House for debate. [ The economics of arming America’s schools ] The lawmaker relied on his past as an educator to reinforce his position during the committee hearing Thursday morning. “We don’t need to have a lady teacher in a school that’s got a firearm,” he said, according to NBC affiliate WSFA. “I taught for 32 years, and it’s mostly ladies that’s teaching.” Shiver is correct about the demographic makeup. Nearly 80 percent of public school teachers were women in 2011-2012, according to Education Department data. The connection to perceived fragility in women is less clear. Gun ownership was at a nearly 40-year low in 2016, with fewer people owning more guns per person. Most gun owners are men. But gun ownership among women has held consistently since 1980 as ownership among men experienced a decline, TheTrace.org reported. About one in five women owns a gun, the Pew Research Center found last year, and women appear to view firearms as a pure self-defense tool at higher rates than men. While about 90 percent of men and women who own guns say it is used for protection, 27 percent of women say self-defense is the sole reason they own a firearm, Pew found. That is more than three times the men who say the same, at 8 percent. That may not be surprising, given the apparent link between domestic violence and violent crimes involving guns. Read more: local  education Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. Republican who called Parkland teen a ‘skinhead lesbian’ drops out of Maine House race A student was suspended after staying in class during walkouts. Here’s what actually happened. These college students joined walkouts to protest gun violence after the Parkland shooting