MOSCOW — Thousands gathered Tuesday in front of the main municipal building in the Siberian city of Kemerovo to demand answers following Sunday’s tragic fire in a local mall, which killed at least 64 people — 41 of whom are now understood to be children. The tragedy at Winter Cherry mall has gripped the nation. The fire’s cause has not been determined yet, but local officials say a child may have lit a foam ball in a children’s play area. The fire quickly engulfed the mall’s top floor, trapping children in a nearby movie theater. Fire alarms did not sound, and fire doors were locked. The committee charged with investigating the tragedy said the alarms have been out of service since March 19, and a security guard neglected to trip manual alarms once the blaze was reported. Russian President Vladimir Putin flew to the city about 2,000 miles east of Moscow to meet with local officials and calm speculation that many more people died than officially reported. About a dozen demonstrators gathered Tuesday morning to call for a full probe into the tragedy, and their ranks grew throughout the day to a reported 4,000. Many of the demonstrators doubt the official count of 64 dead, alleging that the toll is much higher. “Truth! Truth!” they chanted. “How many dead?” They also called for the resignation of Kemerovo Mayor Ilya Seredyuk and the regional governor, Aman Tuleyev. Footage from the scene shows riot police in tactical gear standing between citizens and the administration building. “Resign! Take them to court!” the demonstrators shouted. An entire class of schoolchildren apparently died in Sunday’s fire, some after making desperate, futile phone calls to parents or relatives before succumbing to smoke and flames. Others posted to social media before falling silent and never logging into their accounts again. The disastrous blaze joins a long list of accidents, fires and sinkings in Russia marked by apparent negligence beforehand and inept or insufficient responses by emergency services. Russian prosecutors can be quick to assign criminal blame in such cases and swiftly went to work in Kemerovo, making four arrests, but subsequent promises to step up safety measures often prove to be halfhearted. [Trapped children called parents from burning Russian mall to say goodbye] During Putin’s meeting with local officials, Tuleyev apologized to the Russian president for what happened in Kemerovo. He has not, however, faced the crowds outside to issue an apology. Instead, according to Russian broadcaster RBC, Tuleyev told Putin that the demonstration was attended by just 200 of the usual suspects — opposition protesters, rather than the families of the dead and their outraged compatriots. Meanwhile, Deputy Governor Sergey Tsivilev took a different tack. Later in the day, he came out and begged the crowds for forgiveness on bended knee. Seredyuk, the mayor, also ventured out to invite a group of 15 demonstrators to visit the morgue with him and inspect the bodies themselves. According to the Interfax news agency, one of the group’s members confirmed the official count of 64 bodies. “We have inspected the morgue,” the demonstrator, who was not named in the report, was quoted as saying. “We have seen the bodies. Judging by their size, there are some 20 adults in the morgue. The others are children. The bodies have not been hidden.” Putin urged people to wait for the full investigation before assigning blame, assuring them that officials responsible for the tragedy would be punished, regardless of their rank or standing. “What is happening here? It is not hostilities or an unexpected discharge of methane in a mine. People, children came there to have a good time,” he told ministers in a meeting, according to Interfax. “Why? It is because of criminal negligence and disorderliness.” Demonstrators also expressed frustration over the lack of official events mourning the dead. Later in the day, Putin signed an order declaring Wednesday a national day of mourning over the tragedy in Kemerovo, the Kremlin said. In Moscow, two separate memorial vigils were staged Tuesday evening at opposite ends of the city center. After opposition leader Dmitry Gudkov called for Muscovites to gather at Pushkin Square at 7 p.m. to lay flowers and mourn the dead, the Moscow mayor’s office announced a preemptive meeting next to the Kremlin at 5 p.m. Both vigils were solemn, although the later one was much larger — drawing a few thousand people. Despite attendance by opposition figures including Alexei Navalny, Gudkov stressed that it was not an opposition protest. The gathering was technically unsanctioned by authorities, but police made no effort to disperse the crowd. Attendees stood mostly in silence with black signs and balloons. Some people attended both meetings. One participant in the event on Pushkin Square, identified only as Maria, told the RBC news service that as many vigils should be held as possible. A vigil was also organized in St. Petersburg.  Efforts to regain control of the narrative were also forwarded by the Russian Foreign Ministry. Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said that coordinated U.S. and European expulsions of Russian diplomats yesterday showed disrespect for the dead. “We have learned a lot about the politicians of Europe and America today,” she said. “We have always sympathized with the Americans and the Europeans during their moments of grief. . . . This is hard to believe and to forget.” In Washington on Monday, Russian Ambassador Anatoly Antonov was more explicit. “Today, on the day of the Kemerovo tragedy, we have seen that Washington is emotionally deaf, indifferent and heartless,” he said. “Ordinary Americans sympathized with our grief and send their condolences.” “Thank you, friends,” he said. U.S. Ambassador to Russia Jon Huntsman was asked by Kommersant newspaper about the decision to expel the diplomats on the same day as the fire, and he explained that there were simply too many countries involved to delay the action. Read more: Trump administration expels 60 Russian officers A former Russian troll speaks: ‘It was like being in Orwell’s world’ Putin’s reelection takes him one step closer to becoming Russian leader for life