Metro is still slogging its way Back2Good, but that’s not stopping the long-suffering transit agency from trying to cash in on its brand. Starting tomorrow,you’ll be able to buy a whole bunch of Metro-themed swag with the grand opening of the agency’s new pop-up store. In an announcement Tuesday, Metro said people will be able to purchase all sorts of stuff  online and at Metro Center.  The agency also unveiled a new ad for the store with people who can’t stop dancing they’re so happy to be able to buy Metro-themed sweat pants or a T-shirt that says, “Traffic? Nah Brah.”  Imagine the joy when D.C., Maryland and Virginia all agree to raise taxes of some sort for dedicated funding. The catalog includes mini-puzzles of Metro’s distinct subway map, coffee mugs, coasters, lamps, holiday ornaments, tote bags, jewelry — even a set of sterling silver cuff links shaped like D.C. tokens ($190) that you can bet Jack Evans will want to wear. There are books (though not Zachary M. Schrag’s definitive tome The Great Society Subway: A History of the Washington Metro) and even a toy model of a Silver Line train.  The wooden model costs $16.95 — unless, of course, there are overruns. (It’s also empty most of the time.) You can even customize things with logos for your favorite station. “This is a great opportunity for people to get something unique from Metro, whether you are a visitor looking for a souvenir or an everyday rider,” Metro General Manager Paul J. Wiedefeld said in a statement. “At the same time, M Shop represents another potential source of revenue to help support Metrorail and Metrobus operations.” We looked but could not find his “In Paul We Trust” T-shirt but no worries, there’s so much more. Kids can even pick up a Metro trackworker or  Metro Transit Police uniform!  Imagine grownups’ surprise when they actually see someone in a police uniform on a train! Be careful with that track worker outfit though — the trains don’t always stop for you. Of course, there were partypoopers — those people beaten down from walking up broken escalators or who just won’t let it go that commuting with Metro is a daily crapshoot compared to Uber — who made fun of the new store on Twitter.  Some seemed almost angry. Metro says the M Shop, located near the 12th Street & F Street NW exit at the Metro Center station, will be open Wednesday. Hours are 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Beat the crowds – take a cab. Read more of Tripping: local  tripping Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. The wreckage speaks: the police impound lot where vehicles from fatal crashes go (Part 2) The wreckage speaks: A crash reconstruction team tells stories that victims can’t Video shows Texas man ordering an alleged drunk driver to park it