President Trump is replacing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson with Mike Pompeo, who serves as CIA director. The move, confirmed by White House officials on Tuesday, came after months of tension between the White House and the State Department, which led to widespread speculation about Tillerson's fate. This dramatic realignment of the top U.S. diplomatic office takes place just weeks before what may be the United States' most important foreign policy event in years: a proposed meeting between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. Officials have said they are hopeful of a U.S.-North Korea summit before the end of May. The two events are almost certainly linked. Although Tillerson's nearly 14 months leading the State Department have often been controversial, he was seen as a rare member of the Trump administration who was vocally supportive of talks with North Korea — a position that sometimes put him publicly at odds with Trump. Pompeo, on the other hand, has gained a reputation for more hawkish positions not only about North Korea, but also other U.S. geopolitical rivals such as Iran and Russia. Adam Cathcart, a North Korea expert at the University of Leeds, wrote last month that Pompeo “tends to speaks about twice as fast as the President” about Pyongyang's weapons programs. Here is a selection of comments by both men on North Korea that highlight their different approaches. Tillerson on North Korea Pompeo on North Korea The moves in the State Department could be an incisive sign of how the Trump administration views the potential talks with North Korea. “If the administration is serious about beginning talks with the North Koreans, it’s likely that Trump is making this change now because he believes a more hawkish Pompeo will represent him better than Tillerson,” said Suzanne DiMaggio, a senior fellow at the New America think tank who has led unofficial negotiations with North Korea. However, the differences in Tillerson's and Pompeo's stated positions on North Korea may well reflect the different offices the two men held when they made those comments. Patrick Cronin, a scholar at the Center for a New American Security, said he expects Pompeo to modify his language when he makes the jump to the State Department. “I think he's an adapter,” Cronin said. “Mike Pompeo has been in sync with President Trump from day one — on North Korea in particular,” Cronin said. “There has been no doubt that he has been instrumental in shaping the administration's maximum-pressure-and-engagement strategy.” Tillerson had become preoccupied with reforming the State Department, Cronin said, and had been reluctant to play the role of top U.S. spokesman on foreign policy. Pompeo will have to “right the ship” on these reforms, Cronin added. It is not clear whether North Korean officials will take note of the change at the State Department. However, in January, North Korean state media ran an editorial that criticized comments Pompeo had made about North Korea, suggesting that they revealed “the sinister intention of the Trump group to turn back the climate of reconciliation” between North and South Korea. Joel Wit, founder of the 38 North website and a former negotiator with North Korea, said Pyongyang may well view it as a positive for talks that Pompeo is closely aligned with Trump. “I think Pompeo is probably smart enough to know what the president wants, and he wants the president to succeed,” Wit said. world  worldviews Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Today's WorldView newsletter What's most important from where the world meets Washington Please provide a valid email address. DiMaggio said Pompeo and Tillerson were “untested” diplomats, which put the United States at a disadvantage. “Pyongyang’s chief diplomat, Ri Yong Ho, is North Korea's lead expert on the U.S., with extensive negotiating experience,” she said. More on WorldViews The big unknown in a Trump-Kim meeting? Location, location, location.