 This post will be updated through the day on Tuesday. It’s the first day of spring, and another big nor’easter is in the forecast for the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast. More than 12 inches of snow is possible from this one — a long-duration storm that began in the Washington-Baltimore area Tuesday morning and will last through Thursday night in New England. Nothing is hitting the ground yet in the Big Apple because of the combination of dry air and warm urban temperatures. Snow is either melting or evaporating before it reaches the ground, which means the only weather to report thus far is cold and damp. In Philadelphia, light snow and sleet has been falling since late morning and accumulating on grassy and elevated surfaces. As temperatures fall this afternoon and precipitation gets heavier, the snow will pile up more quickly. Snow will spread north on Tuesday, starting near the Mason-Dixon Line and ending up in southern New England. More than a foot of snow is possible in Philadelphia, New York, Connecticut and Massachusetts. Accumulation over six inches will be widespread across the Northeast. In Philadelphia, the wintry mix began Tuesday morning and is moving northward through eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Ice accumulation is possible on roads and elevated surfaces, which will make travel dangerous. Tuesday night, precipitation will change to snow and will be heavy on Wednesday. Snow totals will range from seven to 13 inches in the Philadelphia area. In New York City, 12 to 16 inches of snow is in the forecast. A heavy wintry mix — sleet and freezing rain — will spread into the Tri-State area on Tuesday night. Blizzard conditions could overtake Long Island. Snow should taper off Thursday morning. Farther north in southern New England, similar snow totals are likely in Connecticut, Rhode Island and Eastern Massachusetts. This is a large and complicated storm that extends much farther south than the D.C.-Baltimore area. It’s the same system that caused severe thunderstorms and tornadoes in the Southeast on Monday night. Pending confirmation from the National Weather Service, numerous tornadoes touched down in Alabama and Georgia, south of Atlanta, some of which destroyed homes and brought down trees. Hail larger than softballs reportedly fell in Alabama.