It got close at the end, but Michigan is headed back to the Final Four. The Wolverines nearly blew a 10-point lead at the two-minute mark, but held on for a 58-54 win. Duncan Robinson hit the corner three-pointer to cap a 7-0 run that Michigan that 10-point lead, then nailed a pair of free throws and grabbed a late rebound that sealed the game. It’s Michigan’s first trip back to the Final Four since 2013, when the Wolverines lost in the national championship game to Louisville. They’ll play Loyola Chicago, which upset Kansas State earlier in the night, next Saturday in San Antonio. Charles Matthews led the way with a game-high 17 points. Moe Wagner, who struggled with his shot — he was only 3-of-11 from the floor — still finished with 12 points and six rebounds. Phil Cofer led the Seminoles with 16 points and 11 boards, the game’s only double-double. P.J. Savoy’s three-pointer for Florida State with 1:17 to play cut Michigan’s lead to three, and after Zavier Simpson split a pair of free throws, the Seminoles sliced the margin to two on Cofer’s stick-back layup. Robinson made two free throws with 21 seconds left for Michigan to build the lead back up to four before Florida State jacked up two ill-advised threes on its final possession, and when Robinson pulled down a rebound with 13 seconds left, the Seminoles chose not to foul. This is Michigan’s eighth Final Four appearance in school history. The Wolverines are riding a 13-game winning streak that dates back to Feb. 11. *** And just like that, the Michigan lead is back up to 10 after a 7-0 run comprised of a Charles Matthews jumper, a Zavier Simpson layup and a three-pointer from Duncan Robinson. The Wolverines lead Florida State, 54-44, with 2:15 to play. The winner earns a trip to the Final Four to face Loyola Chicago. Charles Matthews leads all scorers with 17 points. Moe Wagner has struggled offensively — he’s only 3-of-11 from the floor — but still has 12 points. *** Michigan could never pull away. Florida State put Moe Wagner in foul trouble and cut the Wolverine lead down to three points with four minutes to play. *** The Wolverines might be starting to pull away. Six minutes into the second half, Michigan is on an 11-2 run to take a 10-point lead, its largest of the game. Florida State went nearly six minutes without a point as the Wolverines ratcheted up the defensive pressure. *** Well, the result won’t be an upset anything like Loyolo Chicago’s run, but Michigan and Florida State are nearly neck-and-neck in Los Angeles at the NCAA tournament’s West regional final. The Wolverines, edged ahead 27-26 at the half after Moe Wagner was fouled shooting a three-pointer and made two of three free throws. Florida State has successfully turned the game into a slug-fest, something Coach Leonard Hamilton’s group needs to do to throw off the hot-shooting Wolverines. The Seminoles forced Michigan into 33.3 percent shooting and outrebounded them 15-11 while blocking five shots. But four Florida State players already have two fouls with a full 20 minutes to play. Charles Matthews leads all scorers with 10 points for the Wolverines. Phil Cofer leads Florida State with seven points. *** Florida State, with its three national championships and three Heisman Trophy winners, is known as one of the great college football programs in the country. Just don’t tell that to the school’s basketball coach. [ Ramble On: Loyola Chicago beats Kansas State to reach Final Four ] When Leonard Hamilton was asked about the potential advantages that come with working at a traditional football school, the easygoing 69-year-old was clearly agitated to answer before the question could even finish being asked. And, once he got started answering, it quickly became clear he had a lot to say. “I think that’s one of the most ridiculous phrases that I’ve heard, football school, basketball school,” Hamilton said Friday afternoon, the day before his ninth-seeded Seminoles face No. 3 seed Michigan for the right to advance to the Final Four next weekend in San Antonio. “I mean, gosh, [Michigan has] been to the Final Four on a consistent basis. I think they’re a good academic school, and they have great sports. “The basketball world that I know of, that I live in, never identified them as a football school. As a matter of fact, I don’t know if I’ve ever really heard anybody use that phrase, other than maybe coming from a reporter. I feel that at every school several sports have maybe had more success than others. Our baseball team has probably had as much success at Florida State as anyone, but nobody would call us a baseball school. Our soccer team does an outstanding job. Our volleyball team is good.” “I just think that’s a cliche and that’s a phrase that we need to eliminate.” [ March Madness 2018: Game recaps and news from the Sweet 16 ] It’s a cliche Hamilton has plenty of experience with. Throughout his three decades of experience as a collegiate head coach — with one year at the helm of the Washington Wizards in the middle — he’s been at three places that would traditionally fit that bill: Oklahoma State, Miami and, for the past 16 seasons, at Florida State. Though he might not like the term “football school,” he admitted the big weekend celebrations that come with Saturday afternoons at Power Five schools with football tradition such as Michigan and Florida State have some added benefits for a college basketball coach. “I kind of enjoy those football weekends myself,” he said with a smile. “It’s good for recruiting.” [ ‘I got shivers down my whole body’: Michigan walk-on hits the shot of his life ] It was just one of many moments of candor from Hamilton during a lengthy and jovial meeting with the press Friday. He took great pleasure in explaining how he came up with the term “junkyard defense” for his players to emulate, describing in great detail what junkyards in the South are like. He was equally pleased to take the time to describe his team’s philosophy of playing at least 10 players heavy minutes every game, extolling the virtues of several of his players who openly asked for their teammates to remain in the game instead of them because they were playing well. When asked if he knows any other languages, because of his penchant for recruiting internationally over the years, he quipped, “I’m still working on English, and I’m struggling with that a lot of the time.” [ ‘18 strong’: Seminoles will send waves of players at Wolverines in Elite Eight ] But Hamilton turned poignant when it came to the final answer of his news conference, in response to what it would mean to him, in his 30th season as a collegiate head coach, to reach the Final Four for the first time as a head coach. “Someone asked me that last night, and I hadn’t had a chance to really think about it, about what it meant to me,” Hamilton said. “I’ve been fortunate in my career to have been, as an assistant, to go to three Final Fours [and win] and I don’t know how many conference championships. I’m more thinking about how important it would be for our student-athletes to enjoy that experience. “I’m not selfish enough to feel that that’s a cure-all for me that’s going to make my life any more important or successful. But I realize that these are memories that our young people will have that they will cherish for the remainder of their lives. I want so much for them to enjoy that experience, because I know how much it’s going to mean to them. “I’m more excited about when they graduate and get their degrees, when I get a chance to go through their weddings and be the godfather to their kids. When I see them grow from being young adults to — I mean, from teenagers to young adults, those are the things that are important to me. “Me personally, I hope that my reward would be to see the smiles on their face and hear their tone of voice and the excitement in it if we can win this game tomorrow.” Then Hamilton smiled. “So my job is to try to get them to be mentally and emotionally poised, connected, and energized and not pressured because they’re trying to satisfy something for the coach,” he said with a laugh. And, with that, he got up from the dais. Schedule: Florida State (23-11) and Michigan (31-7) will tip off at 8:49 Saturday on TBS. How Florida State got here: How Michigan got here: Regular season results: Florida State finished the regular season 20-10, with a 9-9 ACC record, earning the eighth seed in the conference tournament. The Seminoles dropped their ACC tournament opener to Louisville, and earned a No. 9 seed in the NCAA tournament. Florida State didn’t have any players on the all-ACC first, second or third teams; Terance Mann finished ninth in honorable mention. Michigan finished the regular season 24-7, with a 13-5 Big Ten mark, good for the fifth seed. But the Wolverines raced through that event, winning four games in four days to claim a second straight tournament title. That earned them a No. 3 seed. German forward Moe Wagner was second-team all-Big Ten, while fifth-year senior Duncan Robinson was the conference’s sixth man of the year. More NCAA tournament coverage: Porter Moser has led Loyola Chicago to new heights after hitting a career low Loyola Chicago doesn’t need divine intervention to reach the Final Four sports  sports Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. Kentucky Gentlemen? Wildcats chided for skipping handshakes after Sweet 16 loss. Jenkins: The secret to buzzer-beaters? It’s all in the (mental) release Defiant and wounded, Rick Pitino insists he did nothing wrong — and wants back in