There weren’t many people who predicted that No. 16 seed UMBC would shock the NCAA tournament and upset No. 1 Virginia — Neil Greenberg’s projections afforded the Retrievers just a one percent chance of victory — yet Coach Ryan Odoms’s risky strategy against the top seed of the tournament was ultimately fool proof. The America East auto-bid winner used its mobile bigs like Joe Sherburne to thinly spread the Cavaliers’ vaunted pack-line defense, opening driving lanes for guards K.J. Maura and Arkel Lamar, and the subsequent half-court spacing meant that Virginia couldn’t help defend, leaving each player on an island, an uncomfortable reality for Tony Bennett’s squad. That’s how the Retrievers were able to score 1.2 points per possession, by far the most allowed by Virginia this season. Plus, the transcendent play of Jairus Lyles, UMBC’s graduate guard who dropped 28 points, created a no-win situation for Virginia. [There is a formula to beating Virginia basketball, and UMBC followed it to perfection] To keep making history, UMBC needs to keep raining down threes: The Retrievers were successful on 50 percent of their three-point attempts against Virginia. Along with converting from deep, UMBC will need to continue focusing its attention on attacking the rim, a departure from its strategy earlier in the season — only 13 other NCAA tournament teams attempted fewer attempts within five feet of the basket than UMBC did during the regular season. If a team’s transition defense is good, like Kansas State’s has been, UMBC can invert its half-court offense, which creates more driving lanes as UMBC shifts the ball from side and side in an attempt to establish those openings and three-point shots. It bears repeating: UMBC thrives on creating half court spacing and then utterly demoralizing an opponent’s defense with dribble drives and ball screens: The squad’s assist rate (58 percent) ranks within KenPom’s top 50, and each of the five NCAA tournament teams with greater rates are all still dancing, including fellow high seeds Loyola Chicago and Marshall. Maura, in particular, is adept at turning the corner and utilizing his low center of gravity (he is 5-foot-8) to keep the ball on a string before finding an open Retriever: More than half of his assists are made threes, and his points per play, including assists (1.5), ranks sixth in Division I, right behind Jalen Brunson of Villanova (1.5) and Cassius Winston of Michigan State (1.6). [Marshall’s NBA style sparks a Cinderella run that might have legs] Luckily for the Retrievers, one of the 11 losses Kansas State suffered this season came against a team that shares UMBC’s penchant for a free-flowing offense, perimeter shooting and turnover generation: Arizona State, which forced the typically sure-handed Wildcats into committing 16 turnovers. On the other hand, Creighton — Kansas State’s first round opponent — also had a very similar offensive profile as UMBC, using screens and ball movement to generate spacing. In fact, UMBC and Creighton might as well be mirror images of each other: According to Synergy, both use a spot-up shooter on a quarter or more of their plays, both depend on pick and rolls to create offensive mismatches and both look to cut through the defense’s interior.  Per Bart Torvik, whose predictive tool matches past and present NCAA tournament teams, the squads with the most accurate comparisons to UMBC’s statistical resume all lost in either the First Four or the first round, so the Retrievers really don’t have an apt historical comp. If Lyles continues his torrid shooting pace and they can force Kansas State into the same mistakes Arizona State did, UMBC could be a Sweet 16 team for the ages. More NCAA tournament coverage: Updated round-by-round odds for every team Sister Jean will pray for Loyola vs. Tennessee. But she’ll do the scouting herself. Perspective: Farewell, mid-major. March Madness misses you. Nate Oats just coached Buffalo to a huge upset. But he about more than wins. Feinstein: Wright is smooth as a martini, even when Villanova is shaken by the second round Purdue’s Haas fractures elbow, will miss remainder of tournament One crying moment: 15 of the toughest defeats in NCAA tournament history