Jeff Green sat out the Cavaliers’ win Monday over the Pistons with a lower-back injury, which has now caused him to miss three of Cleveland’s past four games. Despite that impairment, he was willing and able to go roller-skating with LeBron James on Sunday, creating optics that the team might have preferred to have avoided, at the very least. Footage of Green roller-skating was shared by James himself on social media. According to cleveland.com, the outing was arranged as a private party by the team, with the intention of serving as a “bonding” event. Some bonding may well have been in order for the Cavs, particularly in the wake of an incident in which J.R. Smith was alleged to have thrown a bowl of soup at an assistant coach. However, the team acknowledged that the sight of Green on skates while ostensibly in too much discomfort to play basketball, including just the day before in a home loss to the Nuggets, was not ideal. The Cavs explained to cleveland.com that they viewed a few easygoing forays around a roller-skating rink as quite different than “the rigors of NBA court battles.” The team was more focused on the improvement in Green’s back, which showed no structural damage in an MRI exam Saturday, after he was granted some rest. A Cleveland source told ESPN that the Cavs were not inclined to speed up Green’s timetable for returning to action, possibly with some playing time Monday, because, as the website explained, “they are focusing on the bigger picture when it comes to Green’s health and not potential gains for one regular-season game.”  Cleveland was particularly shorthanded Monday because starting center Tristan Thompson (sprained right ankle) was also out, as was forward Kevin Love, the latter with a fractured left hand that has kept him sidelined since Jan. 30. In their absences, reserve forward Larry Nance Jr. stepped up with career highs of 22 points and 15 rebounds, helping James (31 points, seven rebounds, seven assists) subdue Detroit for a key win. Nance was acquired along with several other players in a trade-deadline shake-up of the Cavs, who had gone 7-13 since a Christmas Day thumping by the Warriors. The team initially responded well, winning three of its first four games with the new-look lineup, but a recent stretch of three losses in four games since then brought back anxiety about the direction of the squad. That slide, plus Smith’s widely noted suspension for what was later reported to have been the soup-related infraction, could have provided context for Green’s roller-skating adventure to have come off as another unfortunate recent episode. The Cavs, though, are professing to be in more of a big-picture mode — which hopefully won’t become a “Xanadu”-esque flop*. *—”Xanadu,” of course, was a legendarily disastrous 1980 movie featuring Olivia Newton-John, Gene Kelly and roller-skating. Lots of roller-skating. Here, take a look! Read more from The Post: Jemele Hill denies that Chris Berman made ‘racially disparaging remarks’ in voice mail to her sports  early-lead Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Break newsletter National sports news, in your inbox daily. Please provide a valid email address. The Steph Effect: How NBA star is inspiring — and complicating — high school basketball Kobe Bryant picks up Oscar for ‘Dear Basketball’ and drops ‘shut up and dribble’ reference Welcome to the wild, wild West: Eight teams competing for six playoff spots