This article has been updated. One short, newly revealed email from a Manhattan banker just made it much more likely that the $130,000 payment to porn star Stormy Daniels shortly before the 2016 election violated federal law. NBC News on Friday reported that Michael Cohen, President Trump’s longtime ally and attorney, had used a Trump Organization email address as he worked to secure the payment to Daniels. Daniels alleges the money was paid to keep her from telling the media about a sexual relationship she had with Trump; Cohen and Trump continue to deny that relationship. In particular, NBC received a copy of an email from a banker at First Republic Bank that was sent to Cohen. Cohen then forwarded the email to his private Gmail account and, from there, to Daniels’s attorney. Notice the email address. The banker emailed Cohen at mcohen@trumporg.com. Trumporg.com redirects to Trump.com. The domain is registered to the Trump Organization. It is, in other words, an email address that belongs to the Trump Organization — an asset of the company. That means that federal election law was almost certainly violated. Last month, we spoke with Lawrence Noble, senior director and general counsel at the Campaign Legal Center. He walked us through the danger zones for the Daniels payment in terms of what election law prohibits. At the time, it was not clear where the money had come from or how it got to Daniels. We lacked a number of details about how Daniels and Trump’s team, Cohen in particular, had interacted. We have learned a lot since then. In addition to the email above, we have also seen the lawsuit filed by Daniels alleging the agreement to remain silent was never in effect because Trump failed to sign it. Included in that lawsuit is this element of the “factual background” to the matter at hand. Daniels’s lawsuit asserts Trump learned she was talking to media outlets shortly after a number of women had come forward to rebut Trump’s denial during the Oct. 10, 2016, presidential debate that he had groped women as he had implied in the famous “Access Hollywood” tape. Hearing that she might tell her story, too, Trump “sought to silence” her, “thus helping to ensure he won the Presidential Election.” Those two things together — that a Trump Organization email address was used to facilitate the payment and that the payment was linked to the campaign — would constitute a legal violation. The email from the bank to Cohen does not prove that company funds were used to pay Daniels, which Noble told us last month would itself be illegal. Just using that email address is its own problem. Common Cause‘s Paul Ryan (himself a former lawyer with the Campaign Legal Center) noted on Twitter that the use of Trump Organization resources likely violates 11 CFR 114.2(f). That reads, with our added emphasis: “Corporations and labor organizations (including officers, directors or other representatives acting as agents of corporations and labor organizations) are prohibited from facilitating the making of contributions to candidates or political committees, other than to the separate segregated funds of the corporations and labor organizations. Facilitation means using corporate or labor organization resources or facilities to engage in fundraising activities in connection with any federal election …” “The use of the Trump Organization email is evidence that Cohen’s services were, at least in part, being paid for by the Trump Organization,” Noble said in an email. “That would be an illegal corporate contribution to the campaign even if the company did not pay the $130,000.” Paying someone to be quiet so they do not damage a political effort is an in-kind contribution to that campaign, covering a cost meant to aid efforts to win the election. When we spoke in February, Noble predicted the almost-certain defense will be that the Daniels payment did not qualify as a campaign contribution. That Cohen (who does seem to have fronted the $130,000 himself) made a payment to a woman shortly before the election for reasons that had nothing to do with the election itself. Noble was understandably skeptical of this argument, given what was known then. He also pointed out that even if what happened with Daniels was the sort of thing that was very common for Cohen as part of his duties, the Daniels scenario could still be a contribution if Cohen understood it would aid Trump’s electoral effort. The Daniels lawsuit makes clear her team, at least, thought this was Cohen’s (and Trump’s) goal. The payment was made in part “to ensure he won the Presidential Election,” the lawsuit reads. What is more, the original agreement itself includes stipulations that Daniels (identified as “Peggy Peterson” or “PP”) should take certain actions to secure her silence by Nov. 1, 2016 — a week before Election Day. (“DD” was “David Dennison” — Trump.) So we have an agreement executed right before the election with a mandate that Daniels take certain actions protecting Trump against the story coming out before the election that resulted in a $130,000 payment Cohen facilitated using resources provided by the Trump Organization. The final call is the Federal Election Commission’s. But in the view of Ryan and Noble, that is a violation of federal election law.   Update: After NBC’s report was published, ABC spoke with Cohen, who offered two new insights. The first was that he used his Trump Organization email for any number things. “I sent emails from the Trump Org email address to my family, friends as well as Trump business emails,” he told the network. “I basically used it for everything. I am certain most people can relate.” This doesn’t absolve him of the legal jeopardy mentioned above. What’s more, the ABC interview solidified another significant legal problem for Cohen. Cohen told the network that the funds used to pay Daniels “were taken from my home equity line.” The money, that is, came directly from Cohen. The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this week that Cohen told others that he had not been repaid for his investment immediately — meaning that he had, in effect, made a loan to the campaign of some duration by covering this cost. As Noble told us in February (and as he confirmed by phone on Friday afternoon), that means that Cohen almost certainly made an illegal contribution of $130,000 (which we know was in the form of a loan) to the campaign. politics  politics Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. The only way in which Cohen could have paid the $130,000 without having violated campaign finance laws is if he were totally independent of the campaign and, as a private individual, decided to give Daniels the money to buy her silence. But Cohen was clearly empowered to act on behalf of the campaign, including appearing on CNN to speak on its behalf about campaign staffing changes. To assume that no campaign finance laws were broken means assuming either that: Neither seems at all likely.