The 2-year-old and his baby sister were found dead and strapped in their car seats after their mother called 911 Monday night, pleading for help. But the question that haunted Superior, Ariz., Police Chief Christian Ensley a day later was not about the manner of the children’s death or the motive behind the town’s first murder investigation in nearly a decade. What frustrated him most, he told reporters, was why what he saw as clear signs that the children were in danger hadn’t been acted on. national  post-nation Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false About US newsletter Candid conversations about identity in 21st-century America Please provide a valid email address. Their mother, 20-year-old Brittany Velasquez, who relatives and friends said had struggled with drug addiction and mental-health issues for years, is charged with two counts of murder. She was known to disappear, leaving her children — Christopher and his 10-month-old sister, Brooklyn — with relatives for extended periods. But in a news conference on Tuesday, Ensley was not ready to lay the blame solely on her. “I can speak for my [department],” he said. “We are a dedicated, very skilled batch of individuals and [we] will do the right things. “As far as other state entities, I can’t speak for what they did or didn’t do.” In January, Superior Police responded to Velasquez’s home, a one-story house that she and the children shared off and on with extended family. A relative had accused Velasquez of stealing her coat and wanted police to investigate, Ensley said. It was a false alarm — the coat was inside the house the whole time — but the relative wanted officers to know something else: She was tired of taking care of Velasquez’s two small children. Velasquez would disappear for days at a time, the relative said, and leave her children in the care of increasingly frustrated family members. The officer followed up with child protective services, a state agency. And based on what officers in the tightknit town said, Ensley felt there was a real danger to the children that needed to be addressed. “This is a small community. We know Brittany,” Ensley said of the small town of 3,000 people, built around a now-defunct copper mine 60 miles east of Phoenix. “For the last two years, we’ve probably responded to her home, to her house on seven or eight different occasions for different matters.” Some of them involved drugs. Velasquez struggled with drug addiction and had mental-health issues, Phoenix ABC-affiliate KNVX-TV reported, and the children’s father had died of an overdose a year ago. A reporter at Tuesday’s news conference asked if Ensley was frustrated when he learned that the department of child safety had decided not to remove the children or take other action. “Was this frustrating, yes,” he said. “This is a serious incident; this is a small community. It has absolutely rocked Superior. The last homicide investigation incident of this magnitude was maybe eight or nine years ago. Occasionally people die in car accidents here.” The Arizona Department of Child Safety defended itself in a statement posted on its website: DCS had never taken custody of the children and did not place the children with the grandparents. In both reports, there was no evidence that the mother was abusing or neglecting her children. While there were concerns raised regarding Ms. Velasquez’s previous mental health, no evidence was presented by anyone that indicated mental health issues were impeding Ms. Velasquez’s ability to parent. We understand these types of tragic events evoke emotional reactions; we too feel pain when children suffer. However, we can only make decisions based on the available evidence and what the law allows. The Department acted in good faith based on the information we received and exercised our due diligence during these prior investigations. The department said it had received a total of two reports involving Velasquez’s children. The first was on Oct. 6, 2016, when someone said Velasquez left her child with her mother, who was too old to properly take care of the child. The department was contacted again in January saying Velasquez had left her children with her mother without adequate supplies. Both allegations, the department said, were “unsubstantiated and closed.” Other questions about the moments leading up to the children’s deaths remained unanswered on Wednesday. Ensley said Velasquez had been gone from the home for 12 hours, apparently because she was working. Velasquez discovered her children unresponsive, and attempted to perform CPR on them. Several relatives were at the house when police arrived, but it was unclear if they were responsible for the children’s care. Police would not say why the children were found in the car strapped to their seats. Ensley indicated that Velasquez may have been in the process of moving into a home of her own. Despite the repeated accusations of neglect, Velasquez’s portrayal of her family on Facebook was rosy. She had made public several emoji-filled photos of her small family. In May, she posted a photo of a sonogram of Brooklyn: “Only 21 more days till I get to meet you! June 10th is your expected arrival! ❤” Another posted Facebook photo, apparently of a professional portrait, showed her holding one child in each arm, her son in a plaid shirt, her daughter in a headband decorated with a pink flower. “I may not be perfect,” the photo caption read, “but when I look at my children, I know that I got something in my life perfectly right! ❤ Happy Fall!” But there were also public messages during darker times. In June, shortly after Brooklyn was born, her father died. Velasquez made a GoFundMe asking for donations. “He left behind his wife, an 8 year old daughter, 1½ year old son and a 2 week old baby girl. He was loved by many and this is very devastating to us all. Please any donations will be appreciated by his family and children.” Less than a year later, there was another GoFundMe, this one by Velazquez’s sister, Amber. It was titled “Infant and toddler funeral costs.” Read more: Parents burned and beat their teen daughter after she said no to ‘arranged’ marriage, police say She suffocated a 10-year-old in a sweltering box. A jury says she should die, too. Elizabeth Thomas’s abduction made her a different child. Her family isn’t sure how to help her. A teenage girl was ‘brainwashed’ before she was abducted by her teacher, her father says Sandy Hook truther Alex Jones asks for privacy in custody battle ‘for the sake of my children’