COLUMBUS, OHIO — If, indeed, this was the final visit to central Ohio after 23 seasons, the last stop at the state fairgrounds after countless lost days and nights, D.C. United will shed a tear for the departure of a fellow founding member in MLS. But after extending a winless streak here to 11 on Saturday with a 3-1 defeat to the Columbus Crew, United will not miss the almost predestined outcomes. Tied as intermission approached, D.C. conceded two goals about two minutes apart — to unmarked foes on a corner kick, then a counterattack — and faded in the second half in extending its rut here to 0-8-3 with a 22-5 goal deficit over 10 years. [ Is 21-year-old Andrija Novakovich the next big thing for the USMNT? ] The Crew (3-0-1) is unbeaten in 14 straight regular season outings, though investor Anthony Precourt’s plans to move the club to Austin next year continues to dampen enthusiasm. An announced crowd of 8,443 turned out to Mapfre Stadium on a cold, windy and gray day. In the midst of a heavy set of away matches before Audi Field opens this summer, United (0-2-2) has not won since last September, a span of eight matches. United Coach Ben Olsen found some fault in his team but saved his harshest words for referee Drew Fischer, whose decision to let play continue after Crew defender Lalas Abubakar’s low, hard challenge on Luciano Acosta led to Columbus’s third goal. “It was amateur hour,” Olsen scowled. “What do you want [Acosta] to do? Keep his leg in there and get it broken? We talk about protecting some of the most entertaining players in the league and we let them get away with that?” [ Dave Sarachan’s interim job as USMNT coach extended through June ] Had Fischer blown the whistle, United would’ve had a free kick deep in Columbus’s end and Abubakar might’ve been sent off with a second yellow card. Instead, as Olsen raged on the sideline, United allowed Cristian Martinez to surge on the left flank and cross to the freewheeling Pedro Santos on the back side for a simple finish from close range in the 42nd minute. Columbus’s Milton Valenzuela and D.C.’s Yamil Asad had exchanged goals before unmanned Ricardo Clark put the Crew ahead in the 40th minute by heading in Federico Higuain’s corner kick. “We got a little outbattled in the first half, which, in my world, cannot happen,” goalkeeper David Ousted said. “We give up three bad goals, which are a little too easy for them to get.” United’s attack was useless in the second half (one shot on goal, no corner kicks). Columbus, meanwhile, controlled the tempo and hit the crossbar twice. “You’ve got to chase them at 3-1,” Olsen also said during his rant about Fischer’s non-call. “This is not a team you want to chase. They are too good with the ball, they are too good in transition. At 2-1, it’s a different ballgame. We can go about the rest of the game in different ways.” United was missing three starters: Zoltan Stieber and Ulises Segura were on international duty, while Junior Moreno is sidelined with a hamstring injury. Striker Darren Mattocks left at halftime with a leg injury. Columbus was without two of its most important players, goalkeeper Zack Steffen and captain Wil Trapp, both on U.S. national team assignments. Moreno’s absence allowed Chris Durkin, an 18-year-old defensive midfielder from the Richmond area, to make his first career regular season start. His parents and two other family members drove to Columbus. Durkin had entered as a sub in the previous three matches and been instrumental in the two-goal, second-half comeback against Houston last weekend. On Saturday, he paired with second-year pro Ian Harkes. Both players came through United’s youth academy. Getting them quality minutes were among the few bright spots during an otherwise dark outcome. “It’s still a process,” defender Steve Birnbaum said. “We’ve got a lot of new guys. We’re still trying to learn how to play with each other. Not to freak out or anything, but we want to get wins.” sports  soccer-insider Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. The teams will meet again in three weeks at Navy-Marine Corps Memorial Stadium in Annapolis, the second of United’s two off-site home games before Audi Field opens in July. At some point, to keep spirits up, United is going to need to start picking up points on the endless road. “Everyone understands this is a long season, not to get too high or too low, in particular these first four months,” Olsen said. “We’re on a bit of a rock tour.” One that, so far, has been off-key.