It was some of the best of Tiger and some of the, well, not best of Tiger. Tiger Woods again flashed the form he displayed last week in the Valspar Championship — for better and for worse — in Thursday’s first round of the Arnold Palmer Invitational at Bay Hill, shooting a 4-under 68 that put him in the clubhouse tied for second, one shot behind early leader Jimmy Walker. (Other morning players remained on the course after Woods was finished, while half the field had afternoon tee times.) Woods had an aggravating double bogey on the back nine and then settled down, dropping in a vintage 71-foot birdie putt that momentarily had him in sole possession of the lead. He had started the day by posting his first bogey-free nine-hole performance of the young season. And during his opening round at Bay Hill, updated Masters odds installed Woods as the favorite to win what would be his fifth green jacket. His Valspar performance last week filled both golf fans and Woods with hope as the Masters, the first major of the year, nears next month. He finished in a tie for second on Innisbrook’s Copperhead course, his best finish since he tied for second in the Barclays in August 2013. Never mind that he couldn’t close on Sunday; his game appeared to back. [ Tiger Woods’s charge falls short but reminds us what we’ve been missing ] This week’s tournament should put him in a good frame of mind. As Woods put it last weekend, he will be playing on “a golf course I like. I’ve played well there throughout the years and just haven’t been back in a couple of years. Nice to get back.” And however he finishes, Bay Hill seems likely to be his last tournament before the Masters, which starts April 5. Read more from The Post: Tigermania is back: Tiger Woods is surging and so are the golf crowds Former ESPN chief John Skipper says cocaine use and extortion attempt led to resignation Neymar is under fire for ill-conceived tribute to Stephen Hawking Cut by the Cardinals after declining a pay cut, Tyrann Mathieu says it isn’t about the money Baylor suspends four football players amid new sexual assault investigation Yankees’ Aaron Judge warned of tampering after recruiting pitch to Orioles’ Manny Machado Obama reveals his NCAA brackets and they’re full of chalk