ROME — Italians headed to the polls on Sunday in a widely watched vote that will offer a measure of the power of the anti-establishment populists who have been campaigning against traditional parties across Europe. After a campaign riven by  anger toward migrants and pessimism about Italy’s economic prospects, voters will have a chance to register their discontent at the ballot box. Ahead of the vote, the country’s political landscape was fragmented by the rise of parties that exist outside the left-right spectrum that has dominated politics in Europe since World War II. Many leaders and analysts question whether there will be enough support for any one force to put together a governing coalition. Italian politics are famously chaotic, and prime ministers have rarely stayed in office for their full five-year mandates. But this year is notable for the palpable feeling that the old system is breaking down and that what is happening here could be echoed in other countries in Europe, as well. Opinion polls suggest that the old-line center-left and center-right parties in Italy would capture less than 40 percent of the vote share combined, with the rest undecided or preferring other parties. “I’ve lost all trust in the Italian political class, which keeps promising and promising and promising,” said Lorena Bernardini, 42, a shop owner who was voting in the ethnically mixed Esquilino neighborhood of Rome. She said she voted for the Five Star Movement because “maybe they’re not as enmeshed in the system.” The Italian vote was held the same day that Germany’s center-left Social Democratic Party approved a deal for a grand coalition with Chancellor Angela Merkel’s center-right Christian Democrats, clearing the way for a government after five months of political paralysis. In Germany, too, the difficulties were fueled by the rise of outside-the-mainstream parties, including the far-right Alternative for Germany. In Italy, one uniting factor has been a fury directed at the more than 600,000 people who have arrived on the nation’s shores in the past five years. The ruling center-left Democratic Party has moved to halt the flow of migrants coming from Libya toward Italian shores. And even Italians who describe themselves as otherwise tolerant people say they are increasingly worried that the sheer numbers are putting pressure on Italy that it cannot manage. “Here we have the benefit of the best efforts, and still we are collapsing under the pressure,” said Filippo D’Ascola, 45, a worker at the national environmental agency who voted for the Democratic Party and was wearing a blue rubber bracelet that he got after he donated money to the U.N. Refugee Agency. “Italy is like a billboard in Africa,” he said, adding that he was concerned about the numbers of migrants who appeared to be coming to find better jobs, not because they were fleeing war. Ex-prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, who is leading a right-wing bloc that stands the best chance of winning the vote, has advocated deporting all those recently arrived migrants who are in Italy without proper documents — a step without precedent in postwar Western Europe. Yet he is still seen as a moderate by Italians and European leaders, given the even angrier rhetoric of hard-liners on his right flank. His center-right Forward Italy party was expected to narrowly beat out one of its coalition partners, the Northern League, which has expanded its appeal beyond its regional roots on a nationalist platform of protections for Italians and harsh rhetoric toward Muslims and newcomers. But there remained an outside chance that the polls could be underestimating the support for the far-right party and that its youthful leader, Matteo Salvini, could prevail atop the coalition. “There are too many migrants,” said Lorenzo Scacchi, 20, who works for a company that sells car parts and was voting in the working-class delle Torri area of eastern Rome. He said Italy didn’t have enough resources to help everyone. “There are a lot of Italian families who can’t make it to the end of the month, and they’re in a very difficult situation,” he said. world europe  Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. The largest single vote-getter was expected to be the Five Star Movement, which has about a 28 percent share, according to opinion polls. But it has struggled to convince voters that it is ready to govern, and it is unclear whether the party is willing to make the compromises necessary to form a ruling coalition. Five Star’s hard-to-categorize policies are determined by an unusual system of direct online voting among party members, and it has not taken clear stances on some of main issues facing Italy in the world, such as whether the European Union should gain more powers and the future of economic sanctions against Russia. The polls close at 11 p.m. Italy time (5 p.m. Eastern time), and preliminary results will be available several hours later. But with such fragmentation, negotiations over a coalition are likely to take weeks or even months.  Stefano Pitrelli contributed to this report.  Read more Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news