A security camera video shared with The Washington Post shows the physical contact that prompted a female Maryland state senator to lodge a harassment complaint against a longtime Annapolis lobbyist — the first public accusation of sexual misconduct in the statehouse since the start of the #MeToo movement. The one minute, 26-second video shows lobbyist Gil Genn approaching Sen. Cheryl Kagan (D-Montgomery) near a crowded bar at Castlebay Irish Pub in Annapolis, putting his hand on her back and moving it around. Earlier this month, Kagan accused Genn of groping her when they met on March 1. She said he put his hand on her back and “ran it down my back to my tush.” In a statement days later, Genn strongly denied the allegation, saying he “kept his hands to myself. I didn’t even shake her hand.” Kagan obtained the video from Castlebay and gave it to the Post. Vincent Quinlan, owner of the restaurant, could not be reached Tuesday morning to give permission for The Post to publish the video. The physical contact it captures is brief, and it is hard to tell exactly when Genn removes his hand. Genn, who was also given the footage, and his lawyer, Tim Maloney, strongly pushed back against Kagan’s claim that the video showed Genn touching her inappropriately. “There are four second frames which show Gil Genn put his hand around her waist while talking to her,” Maloney said. “He does not ‘run his hands down her back’ or ‘touch her tush’ at all—as Senator Kagan claimed.” It is not clear from the video whether Kagan reacted to the contact in a negative way, which she has said in interviews that she did. “She does not turn away or otherwise avoid him—as she claimed--but goes on to have a friendly and animated conversation for another 1 minute 21 seconds in which she laughs, gives him a thumbs up and appears engaged,” Maloney said. Kagan said she avoided eye contact with Genn immediately after he touched her, which the video appears to show. She resumes eye contact after a few seconds, and continues talking to Genn. In a March 5 statement, Genn denied having any contact with Kagan, saying he “did not run [his] hand down her back or down to her tush. And I especially and consciously avoided the all too common Annapolis legislative ‘hug’ many legislators use to greet one another. I did none of that in my very brief encounter with Senator Kagan. I am 100 percent certain of these facts.” On Tuesday, Maloney sent a new statement from Genn, in which he acknowledges placing his hand on Kagan’s back “for a few seconds.” “I never ran my hand down her back. I never grabbed her tush. I never groped her,” Genn said. “. . .Senator Kagan never once turned away from me. She remained actively engaged in our conversation for the next one minute and 19 seconds. She laughed, nodded at me, introduced me to her former aide, sipped from her drink, and even gave me a ‘thumbs up’ toward the end.” Kagan said she was relieved when she first watched the video. “Most women who are harassed or sexually assaulted will not have access to such undeniable proof,” she said. The senator said hundreds of people have thanked her in person or on social media for coming forward with her allegations at a time when Maryland lawmakers are trying to decide how best to address sexual harassment complaints. But she said she also knew that there were others who questioned whether the incident took place. “Some people doubt your honesty; some made comments on my looks and possible sexual orientation,” she said. “But I’m glad I spoke out, even though it has been more of a distraction in the middle of our 90-day session. This video will allow me to refocus on my 9-1-1 bills and my consumer protection bills.” Immediately after being accused by Kagan, Genn — who served in the legislature representing Montgomery County before becoming a lobbyist — told The Baltimore Sun that the allegation was “delusional.” In his statement days later, he apologized for using that word. “The video speaks for itself,” Kagan said Tuesday. “It reveals that virtually everything in Mr. Genn’s three-page denial was false.” Kagan said she plans to provide the video to the General Assembly’s director of Human Resources, which is the office in the state house designated to handle sexual harassment complaints. But the legislature’s anti-harassment policy does not currently include adjudicating claims against lobbyists, whose conduct is governed by the state Ethics Commission. The Ethics Commission does not investigate claims of sexual harassment. Kagan said she hopes changes are made this year to address that gap. Del. Ariana B. Kelly (D-Montgomery), president of the Women Legislators of Maryland caucus, has proposed legislation that would provide a process for dealing with allegations involving lobbyists and require an independent investigator to handle some complaints “The incident at Castlebay makes a very strong case for the pending sexual harassment legislation being considered this year,” Kagan said.