In the moment they had waited and worked for, when history and his team were supposed to collide head-on, Chuck Henry’s hands were stuffed in his pockets, his eyes glanced at the scoreboard then trailed to the hardwood floor, his cheeks were damp from tears. “We’re good, we’re good,” Henry, the head coach of Fairmont Heights boys basketball, said as he pulled each of his players, silver medals hanging around their necks, into a bear hug Saturday afternoon. “Keep your head up.” At the start of the day, Fairmont Heights had a chance to win a second consecutive Maryland 1A state high school championship, for their school, for their community and, even if it were last on their lists, for themselves. They represent Prince George’s County, the basketball-crazed area crunched between Washington, D.C. and Maryland’s Eastern Shore, and that means a lot to the Fairmont Heights players, and the coaches, and the fans who squeezed into the first 11 rows of the Xfinity Center and screamed from the opening tip to the season’s final buzzer. It means a lot to the County, too. It has been a very visible year for Prince George’s County’s storied basketball legacy. In June, Kevin Durant won his first NBA championship, NBA finals most valuable player and, while standing on basketball’s grandest stage, shouted out the Seat Pleasant neighborhood he grew up in. Less than two weeks later, Markelle Fultz, a teenager from Upper Marlboro, was selected as the first overall pick in the NBA Draft. [The basketball world sees a phenom. His mom sees a kid with one chance to grow up.] But it all extends beyond the moments that are carved into the sport’s larger history. Prince George’s County’s own basketball culture was built on the blacktop games of long ago. The stars who made it, and the stars who didn’t. The opportunities seized and the opportunities spoiled, and how there is a lesson to be learned either way. And it now includes teams like Fairmont Heights, who exceeded expectations for two seasons, fell just short of their own and, even when the scoreboard showed a 59-48 win for Dunbar in Saturday’s state title, didn’t need a victory to extend tradition. “It’s not about getting guys to the NBA or even the biggest colleges,” Henry said earlier in the week. “It’s about giving these kids something to be apart of, something they can count on, something they can shoot for and learn from. It’s about being part of that tradition at our school and in the County. “And believe me, it’s a great tradition.” Friday: Maryland state semifinals Henry ascended onto the yellow bus, escaping a biting afternoon wind, and set down his suit bag before peering at his group. “All right, fellas, it’s a business trip now,” he said just after 2 p.m. on Friday before his team headed to its semifinal matchup with Patterson Mill. His players, 15 of them, poked their heads up, their eyes hovering just above the green seats and fixed on their bearded coach. “As usual, no talking on the way over. Then we talk on the way back by doing what?” “By getting a W,” the players mumbled in unison, and then it was silent aside from the sound of the bus’ motor and wheels grinding against the uneven street. Any drive through Prince George’s County, short or painfully long, can evoke the area’s basketball history. Whether it’s by passing a certain high school or recreation center or worn playground, it is hard to avoid the past, with NBA players like Durant, Fultz and Michael Beasley following in the footsteps of Prince George’s County’s Jeff Green, Ty Lawson, Delonte West and Michael Sweetney. And that is only the start. [Behind Ashia McCalla’s 29 points, Eleanor Roosevelt wins Maryland 4A girls’ title] Some say it all began with Landover native Len Bias, the Northwestern High and University of Maryland star who died two days after he was drafted No. 2 overall by the Boston Celtics in June of 1986. Others say the tradition is not so easy to track, with all the pickup legends and careers that never fully bloomed. But it persists, even as budding basketball talents are more likely to seek out a private-school opportunity than play for their neighborhood public school. Four Prince George’s County teams — the Fairmont Heights boys, Bladensburg boys, Eleanor Roosevelt girls and Largo girls — played for a state championship on Saturday. Eleanor Roosevelt came away with the 4A girls title. Bladensburg, making its first finals appearance since 1979, fell four points short of defending champion Perry Hall. “You can still have pride in your neighborhood and your school and your county,” said Ricky Goings, a Greenbelt, Maryland native who started Everyone Deserves A Shot, a program helping area athletes obtain college scholarships. “It may be different and more rare now than it used to be. But when that pride comes out, it can be really special.” Fairmont Heights rolled into College Park and, about five hours later, exited the arena with a 72-49 win. Senior Kimani Benjamin led the way with 17 points. Senior point guard Darren Lucas-White paced the Hornets with 14, six rebounds and five assists. It gave Fairmont Heights a chance to win back-to-back titles for the first time since 1971 and, one year after revising their own recent history, put them on the cusp of making more. Henry led his coaches through the bowels of the arena as 8 p.m. passed, the black suit in his suit bag now ruffled by two hours of pacing along the sideline and penning plays on his court-shaped whiteboard and pleading his team to take the right shots and rotate on defense. His mind was already shifted to Dunbar, the last team in Fairmont Heights’ way. “Coach,” said a woman working the event and sitting at a table by the exit. “Y’all gonna take this home tomorrow?” “Yes, ma’am,” Henry said without hesitating, and the chance to do so was only 15 hours away. Saturday: Maryland state final The shots didn’t fall. The point-blank layups rolled out. Dunbar pressed up on Fairmont Heights at every opportunity, Fairmont Heights tried to press itself back into the game but, when the 32 minutes were up, the scoreboard showed an 11-point loss for the Hornets. And their faces showed sorrow and shock that the season, set to end either way, somehow ended like this. They received their silver medals and the runner-up trophy was handed to Lucas-White. Photographers started to snap photos of him, Henry and a few other teammates. He stopped them and beckoned everyone over to come pose, eyes swelled from tears and mouths stuck frowning, as a team. “I tell them this all the time, but on the other side is an opportunity,” said Henry at the postgame news conference with three seniors sitting to his left. “Fifty-plus wins in two years, I felt like we had a great run,” said Benjamin, who will likely play Division II basketball next year. “It’s legendary what we did these past couple years. It’s legendary what we did. We’ll never forget it.” “I feel like everyone in this program grew as a man over these past two years,” added senior forward Yearlarndo Reed II. [Bladensburg comes up just short of Maryland 4A boys’ title in loss to Perry Hall] sports   Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Daily newsletter Sports news with a focus on D.C. area teams. Please provide a valid email address. Henry looked at Reed out of the corner of his eye and smiled. That is what he wanted all along, for his players to see the value beyond the court, for a group of 15 teenagers to use a county’s time-honored tradition to reach for something bigger and better. He graduates 13 seniors this year and won’t spend all spring and summer recruiting a new team. He will bring up young players from the junior varsity squad and start teaching them one of his key lessons: That they don’t only have to “not lose.” They can also expect to win. “To hear Yearlarndo say that, I’ll take that over a win any day,” Henry said. “I don’t want to say basketball is the only thing for ours kids in Prince George’s County, even if it is a disadvantaged area in a lot of ways. That’s not the case. But it gives them something to care about, and this experience is something they will always have.” With that, Henry limped through a skinny hallway, the season’s final box score in hand, and toward a quiet locker room. Fairmont Heights soon left Xfinity Center with a second-place plaque, 20 some silver medals and a whole lot more than that.