By Saturday afternoon, when John Wall will likely make his return to the Washington Wizards’ starting lineup, the most demanding stretch of Tomas Satoransky’s career will come to an end. Since late January, when Satoransky took over the starting point guard responsibilities, the days and games have gone by in a blur. “Is it 27?” Satoransky asked, repeating the active streak of games he has started. “Nice,” he concluded. “It’s long.” In fact, it is the longest stretch of starts and the second-highest minutes average (30.3 per game since Jan. 27) for Satoransky as a professional — even going back to the 2009-2010 season when he started playing overseas. Satoransky knows that he’ll soon return to the bench, but the last 27 games as the Wizards’ lead guard have burnished him into a more confident player for a potentially deeper rotation. “I was on the court during a tough situation. The situation where the game is tied,” said Satoransky, the second-year NBA player from the Czech Republic. “So I think it gave me a lot of experience with that. Also a lot of confidence. “It was a nice run.” [ Otto Porter Jr. injures ankle as Wizards fall to Pistons ] Although the Wizards (41-33) have not made it official, several teammates and people close to Wall have pinpointed the Saturday afternoon matchup against the Charlotte Hornets as the all-star’s comeback date. By that game, the Wizards will look to clinch a playoff spot. However, the team has remained in the hunt because players like Satoransky stepped into greater roles. In the 27 games, Satoransky has performed as a selective shooter (making 52.8 percent of field goal attempts and averaging 10.4 points per game) and a heady facilitator (6.0 assists). The numbers compare nicely to Satoransky’s best year as professional in 2013-14 when he played in Spain and averaged 30.9 minutes, 12.4 points on 47.5 percent and 4.6 assists through 34 games. “The thing I look at Tomas, he gives you so much effort,” Coach Scott Brooks said. “Every play [on] defense, offense, practice. He’s an effort player and he’s played the right way.” That effort must now translate to the second unit. When Washington can finally restore the order of its rotation, Satoransky’s minutes will decrease. Even though Wall, who has participated in full team practices since last Saturday, has been sidelined for two months, the expectation is that he’ll take on a reasonable amount of minutes once he has returned. In the 40 games before Wall’s injury, Satoransky played only 16.4 minutes per game, and he knows that if his workload returns to that level, he’ll have to make a quick impact off the bench. “But I’m looking forward to that,” Satoransky said, “and mostly I’m looking forward to have John on the court again. It’s good to have him back before the playoffs just to kind of settle down everything.” Satoransky has experience in playing with reserves Kelly Oubre Jr., Jodie Meeks, Mike Scott and Ian Mahinmi, and the hope is the bench can perform as an X-factor, and not the team’s Achilles’ heel, in the playoffs. “I think last year we didn’t do that good of a work from the bench standpoint,” Satoransky said. “And I think this year, it might be different.” Like anyone else concerned about the playoff race, Satoransky has checked the standings daily. In the current alignment, the sixth-seeded Wizards would have to start the first round in Cleveland against LeBron James and the Cavaliers — which is why Satoransky says the Wizards need to get on a winning streak and improve their seeding. “Obviously, we have to still be trying to win the games to have the best position as possible. I think we can be anywhere from fifth to eight spot. … We can potentially still change [positions], so we’re still just going from game to game,” Satoransky said. “For me, still Cleveland it’s not the best option for me. Personally.” James-led teams have won 21 consecutive games in the first-round, the longest streak in NBA history. “He always step up his level in the playoffs and it’s very challenging to play him in the first round and he hasn’t lost a playoff game in … years,” Satoransky said. “It’s a stat and stats are meant to be broken, but I would probably be pleased with a different matchup for us.” Read more on the NBA: sports  washington-wizards Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. High school star hopes his jump straight to NBA’s G League starts a ‘trend’ A very good therapy dog helped the Cavs’ J.R. Smith break out of his slump Is Rudy Gobert among the NBA’s top 10? Some of the Jazz center’s stats say yes.