A vigorous winter storm is set to wallop the Northeast, again. Cities like Boston, New York and Philadelphia could be in line for accumulating snow. While coastal flooding and destructive winds are a much lesser threat with this system compared with the severe nor’easter on Friday and Saturday, more cold air in place will mean the rain/snow line can make a run much closer to the coast. The upper-level disturbance that will trigger the development of this coastal storm is over the Upper Midwest right now, set to transfer its energy to a weak surface low off the Mid-Atlantic coast Wednesday morning. The storm will quickly spin into a classic wintertime nor’easter off the Long Island and New Jersey shorelines Wednesday evening and night, putting the major Northeast hubs at risk for some appreciable snowfall. [10 things you should know about nor’easters] A winter storm watch is up for much of interior New England down to New York City and parts of New Jersey. The heaviest precipitation looks to fall along and just west of the Interstate 95 corridor, where northwesterly winds on the left side of the system will bring in cold air and support mainly snow. New York could see 7-10 inches of snow, while Philly will pick up between three and six inches. Washington and Baltimore will fall on the south side of the storm’s snow production on Wednesday, and little or no accumulation is expected. [March madness: The Washington region could see snow multiple times in the next week to 10 days] Shifts in the storm’s track and rate of intensification could require some adjustments in the snowfall forecast over the next day. Closer to the coasts in eastern Connecticut, Rhode Island and Southeastern Massachusetts, rain is favored — and may be moderate to heavy at times. Already, 13.16 inches of rain has fallen on Cape Cod since Jan. 1, nearly five inches more than normal. The exact location of the rain-snow line is a wild card at this point. The American model — the GFS — is calling for a storm track closer to the coast. That would bring more moisture to work with, but also warm air, keeping coastal areas in the rainy zone. The European model, meanwhile, predicts a track slightly farther offshore, which would in turn drag in enough cold air to flip most folks over to snow. That would spell big issues for Boston and Hartford, Conn., which could easily surpass eight inches if that scenario were to come true. There are indications that the GFS may be a bit more reliable, but a lot can change before the first flakes fly. At the moment, the safest forecast for Boston seems to be for 4-7 inches on the backside of the storm. Little wiggles in the rain/snow line could have big impacts on how much snowfall is ultimately realized.  What is certain is that the storm is coming at a bad time. The Big Apple is in for a rough evening commute on Wednesday. One to two inch per hour snowfall rates could combine with 30-40 mph winds to snarl traffic and ground air traffic at JFK and La Guardia. The worst won’t arrive in Boston until 9 or 10 p.m., lasting overnight into the predawn hours of Thursday. West of Interstate 495 in Massachusetts could see the snowfall jackpot, with scattered one-foot totals locally approaching 15 inches. Thundersnow and brief whiteout conditions are possible where the heaviest bands set up — one along Interstate 91 in Connecticut and Massachusetts, and one in Eastern New England along the coastal front. Over Cape Cod and the Islands, wind gusts could occasional top 50 mph. In New Hampshire, Vermont and Maine, odds favor a mainly snow event. The peak time frame for Northern New England would be during the day on Thursday. Heavy accumulations of eight to 11 inches are possible, tapering off farther north and west. Despite the forecast of heavy, wet snow, widespread power outages are not anticipated. Winds will not be as strong as with Friday’s storm, minimizing the coastal flood threat. Only minor to isolated moderate inundations are possible in the typically-prone locations. [Videos show how badly last week’s nor’easter battered the coast] The storm will exit into the Canadian Maritimes on Friday, with more seasonable temperatures returning for the weekend. Boston’s snowfall in the winter is running 0.5 inches above the long-term average, and this storm should push its departure from normal further into positive territory.