He fished with U.S. presidents, business executives and common folks, cast his line on every continent but Antarctica, and cranked out 32 books revered by anglers all over the globe. To the end, Bernard “Lefty” Kreh was recruiting new sportsmen, reeling them in as he did the 126 species of fish that he landed in his lifetime, from the Monocacy River in Maryland to the Amazon watershed. Mr. Kreh died March 14 at his home in Cockeysville, Md. He was 93. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. World-renowned and a member of three fishing halls of fame, Mr. Kreh baited hooks with Presidents Jimmy Carter and George H.W. Bush, writer Ernest Hemingway, golfer Jack Nicklaus and baseball player Ted Williams. He fished for marlin in Cuba with Fidel Castro and, at 90, fished in the Bahamas with newscaster Tom Brokaw, actor Michael Keaton and rock star Huey Lewis. Mr. Kreh was also a former outdoors writer at the Baltimore Sun. “Lefty was one of the greats who, no matter how far up the food chain he went, would answer your questions whether you were Jimmy Carter or John Smith off the street,” said Tony Tochterman, co-owner of the Fells Point tackle shop where Mr. Kreh bought his first fly rod. “He lived to expand his knowledge of fishing to the next generation.” In 2015, at a ceremony at which he received the American Museum of Fly Fishing Heritage Award in New York, Brokaw paid homage to Mr. Kreh, who was in the crowd. “In all the years that I have been watching great athletes, everybody from Michael Jordan to . . . Sandy Koufax and others, who were at the top of their game, we are in the presence of a master of his craft,” Brokaw said. Inventive to a fault, Mr. Kreh often thought outside the tackle box. He designed a fly, “Lefty’s Deceiver,” so revolutionary that it was celebrated on a first-class stamp by the U.S. Postal Service in 1991. Each March, for 18 years, Maryland has hosted the Lefty Kreh Tie Fest, a popular fly-fishing exhibition. In 2012, the state christened the Lefty Kreh Fishing Trail, a seven-mile stretch along a pristine trout stream in Gunpowder Falls State Park, northwest of Baltimore. Mr. Kreh was Will Rogers in waders, fellow anglers said. “Watching him cast, with that fluid, flowing motion, evoked a sense of relaxed power,” said Joe Evans, editor of Chesapeake Bay magazine. “Lefty always said, ‘Most people cast so hard they look like monkeys hoeing cabbage.’ He’d tell you, ‘Cast any harder and you’ll tear your underwear.’ ” Bernard Victor Kreh was born Feb. 26, 1925, in Frederick, Md. He was 6 when his father died, and he helped pay family bills by selling catfish he’d caught at night, by lantern light, on the Monocacy. After graduating from Frederick High, he joined the Army during World War II and fought in the Battle of the Bulge. He worked for 18 years at Fort Detrick, where he was accidentally exposed to anthrax and, as a result, had a strain of the virus named for him. In 1947, Mr. Kreh purchased his first fly rod and reel — a Pflueger Medalist — at Tochterman’s. That reel is now on display at the American Museum of Fly Fishing in Manchester, Vt. “He could cast a fly line into a paper cup at 25 yards, but he’d never boast about it,” said Candy Thomson, public information officer for the Maryland Natural Resources Police and former outdoors writer for the Sun. Eventually, Mr. Kreh moved to Florida, where he ran the Miami Metropolitan Fishing Tournament and covered the beat for the Miami Herald. In 1972, he returned to Maryland as outdoors columnist for the Sun, a job he held for 18 years. Retired Baltimore Orioles star Boog Powell remembers fishing with Mr. Kreh at a tournament in Miami 40 years ago. “We were on a boat, pitching up and down in 30-mile-an-hour winds, when Lefty spotted a school of mackerel 20 yards away,” Powell said. “Within two minutes, he had his fly rod out and had hooked a 12-pounder. I couldn’t even stand up on the boat, but Lefty was like a rock; nothing could move him.” Mr. Kreh appeared on TV shows and in videos and gave countless clinics and lectures to spellbound crowds, large and small. His goal was environmental at heart. “The more people we can get out there to fish, the better this world will be,” he’d say. “If they’re not there, they won’t care.” His wife of 65 years, Evelyn Kreh, died in 2011. Survivors include two children, Larry Kreh of Glen Arm, Md., and Victoria Huffman of Athens, Ga.; five grandchildren; five great-grandchildren; and a great-great-grandchild. If he slowed with age, few noticed. Several years ago, Mr. Kreh told Evans that he’d just attended his last high school reunion. The reason? “Too awkward,” Mr. Kreh said. “Everyone talked about life in the rest home or playing shuffleboard. When they asked what I was doing, I said, ‘I just got back from fishing in the Amazon.’ ” Read more  Washington Post obituaries  Michael Getler, Washington Post editor who became incisive in-house media critic, dies at 82 Stephen Hawking, physicist who came to symbolize the power of the human mind, dies at 76 Vince Collier and George Downing, legendary surfers and polar-opposite personalities, have died