The NCAA tournament brings the best opportunity for NBA fans to get a look at the next generation of potential stars. While a few elite prospects won’t be part of the festivities because they aren’t in college — most notably, Real Madrid star Luka Doncic — or because their teams didn’t make the tournament, most of the cream of the crop of the upcoming draft class will be among this year’s field of 68 teams vying to cut down the nets. Here’s a look at the top 25 players, in alphabetical order, from an NBA draft perspective that have at least a realistic chance of being part of the 2018 tournament: Grayson Allen, G, Duke The latest in a long line of players to accept being the face of Duke basketball — and, thus, the title of “most hated player in the nation” — Allen will be a borderline first-round pick but has a chance to stick in the NBA with his size (6-foot-5, 205 pounds) and scoring ability (15.5 points per game). DeAndre Ayton, C, Arizona Potentially the top pick, Ayton is a physical specimen (7-1, 250) capable of both protecting the rim and spacing the floor to three-point range. He could also be a question mark if he’s caught up further in the FBI probe into college hoops. Marvin Bagley III, F, Duke Bagley (20.7 points, 11.2 rebounds) has been every bit the force he was expected to be. While there are concerns about which position he’ll fill in the NBA, his combination of size (6-11, 234) and athleticism will make him a high lottery pick regardless. Mo Bamba, C, Texas Like Ayton, Bamba (13.0 points, 10.6 rebounds, 3.8 blocks) is another massive center (6-11, 225) who will be in the running for the top spot in the draft. But you’d better get a look at him early, given the Longhorns are likely to be a quick out — if they make the tournament at all. Keita Bates-Diop, F, Ohio State In the modern NBA, where wings are in great demand, the 6-7 Bates-Diop is precisely the kind of player every team is seeking. And, as a 22-year-old junior, he should be able to step in and contribute right away. Mikal Bridges, G, Villanova Like Bates-Diop, Bridges is a long, lanky perimeter player (6-6, 210) who can space the floor and defend. That, along with the junior’s experience on the big stage at Villanova, will help him transition smoothly to the NBA and should make him a late lottery pick. Miles Bridges, F, Michigan State Bridges could’ve been a lottery pick last year but chose instead to stick around for a second season under Tom Izzo. His stock hasn’t surged this season as much as expected, but he’s yet another combo forward who should find a home somewhere in the late lottery. Wendell Carter Jr., C, Duke Carter has been a fixture alongside Bagley in Duke’s frontcourt and should be in the mix to be a top-10 pick. His stock could get a boost by a big tournament run. Daniel Gafford, F/C, Arkansas One of many talented bigs in this year’s draft, Gafford is likely to land somewhere in the middle of the first round — a status that could fluctuate depending on how Arkansas does in the tournament, and how Gafford does in pre-draft workouts. Shai Gilgeous-Alexander, G, Kentucky The NBA is looking for length and athleticism on the perimeter. As a 6-6 point guard, Gilgeous-Alexander provides both, making him an intriguing option somewhere in the draft’s first round. Devonte’ Graham, G, Kansas Graham is the senior leader that a team hoping to make a deep tournament run needs, and Kansas Coach Bill Self will heavily lean on him. The 6-2 scorer is likely a second-round pick for now, but that could change with a big March. Aaron Holiday, G, UCLA The third of the Holiday brothers (behind New Orleans Pelicans guard Jrue, a one-time NBA all-star, and Chicago Bulls guard Justin), Aaron should be following them to the NBA after a breakout junior season in which he posted 20.1 points and 5.8 assists per game. De’Andre Hunter, F, Virginia There’s no guarantee that Hunter, a talented 6-7 freshman, chooses to leave Virginia after his first season under Coach Tony Bennett. But he’s precisely the kind of player who could have a breakout tournament that takes him from fringe first-round prospect to surefire pick, compelling him to enter the draft. Jaren Jackson Jr., F/C, Michigan State Likely the youngest player in the draft, the 6-11 Jackson has the potential to turn into the kind of floor-spacing center (shooting nearly 40 percent from three-point range and 80 percent at the free throw line) that every team in today’s shot-happy NBA dreams of finding. That combination is almost assuredly going to place him among the first few names announced by Commissioner Adam Silver in June. Kevin Knox, F, Kentucky Yet another guy who can play both forward spots while providing scoring punch (15.7 points per game) and defensive versatility, the 6-9 freshman is also likely to be a mid-first-round pick. Chimezie Metu, F/C, USC Another player who has been caught up in the FBI probe, the 20-year-old is — at least as of now — playing for the Trojans. He could also use a big March to change his status as a borderline first-round pick. Jontay Porter, C, Missouri The younger brother of consensus top-10 pick Michael Porter Jr. (who we’ll get to in a moment), Jontay Porter could wind up staying at Missouri for at least another year. But he does offer some intriguing potential as a near-7-footer who can space the floor (36 percent from three-point range) and has great passing ability. Michael Porter Jr., F, Missouri Porter may be the most intriguing player to watch heading into the tournament. After sitting out virtually all season because of a back issue — he logged two minutes total — he’s expected back for the SEC tournament and should play in the NCAA tourney as well. If healthy, he could be a game-changer for Missouri, and he could get back in the conversation for the top pick if he proves his back issues are behind him. [He’s been compared to Kevin Durant. Now he’s coming back for March Madness.] Collin Sexton, G, Alabama The best point guard prospect in this year’s draft, the 6-3 Sexton has helped put Alabama basketball on the map. Questions about his shot linger, but he brings enough to the table (18.3 points per game) to be a late lottery pick. Landry Shamet, G, Wichita State Shamet will hope to follow a couple of other recent Wichita State guards to the NBA: Fred Van Vleet (Toronto Raptors) and Ron Baker (New York Knicks). And he’s another guy with the size (6-4, 180) and length to be an intriguing selection late in the first round for a team looking for an immediate contributor. Zhaire Smith, G/F, Texas Tech Another talented freshman who will likely stay in school, given he’s a borderline first-round pick at this point, the 6-5 Smith is averaging more than 11 points and shooting 42.9 percent from three. A big run from the Red Raiders could change his stock dramatically. Khyri Thomas, G, Creighton Yet another wing player with the ability to evolve into the coveted “3-and-D” wing, Thomas should be a first-round pick if he chooses to leave Creighton after a junior season in which he averaged 15.5 points, 4.2 rebounds and 1.6 steals. Lonnie Walker IV, G, Miami A 6-4 freshman guard with a 6-10 wingspan, Walker is definitely the type of intriguing package that can blow up in the tournament and surge higher than the mid-first-round projection he currently holds. If he can help Jim Larranaga make another long tournament run, look out. Robert Williams, F/C, Texas A&M Williams, like Miles Bridges, had the ability to leave as a lottery pick last year but stuck around. Also like Bridges, Williams has seen his stock flatline this season. He’s the type of player who could make general managers look really good or really bad for passing on him, but he has enough physical gifts to make himself a lottery pick regardless after nearly averaging a double-double (10.4 points and 9.0 rebounds). Trae Young, PG, Oklahoma There is no more divisive player in this year’s class than Young, who leads the nation in points and assists per game (27.5 and 8.9) but faded during Big 12 Conference play as teams learned how to deal with him (not to mention that he doesn’t have much talent around him). His career could wind up being like Stephen Curry’s … or like Jimmer Fredette’s. Either way, like both, he should be a mid-lottery selection. Read more: Texas beats Iowa State; Oklahoma State sends Trae Young, OU packing in Big 12 tournament St. John’s bounces Georgetown from Big East tournament for second straight year; Marquette survives sports  sports Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. Oregon State knocks off Washington in OT; Colorado, Stanford, Oregon advance in Pac-12 tournament UNC routs Syracuse, Notre Dame rallies to upset Virginia Tech in ACC tournament A season on the stink: Remembering the smelliest team in NCAA tournament history