BOSTON — The Northeast is bracing for its third nor’easter in less than two weeks, while some people are still feeling the effects of the last storm, which dumped more than two feet of snow on some areas and left hundreds of thousands of residents without power. A southern storm is expected to make its way up the coast, causing more snowfall this week, the National Weather Service said Sunday. The Boston area is expected to receive up to a foot, while southern Maine could see almost 18 inches by Wednesday. national   Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false Must Reads newsletter 5 stories you can't afford to miss, every Saturday. Please provide a valid email address. New York could get four to six inches of snow and Philadelphia could see a few inches by Tuesday morning. Eight inches could fall in West Virginia and four inches is expected in Kentucky. A winter storm watch is in effect for most of New England, parts of New York and Virginia. Alexandra Soto, of Bushkill, Pa., said she is not looking forward to the next storm. Her home lost power during the first nor’easter, on March 2, and the lights did not come back on until Saturday, well after the second storm. “I’m hoping they have enough crews to deal with whatever happens and that they took some proactive measures so that next time, they don’t have to be reactive,” Soto said. “Frankly, I’m hoping this next storm just misses us, because I don’t think I could take another.” The risk for coastal flooding is expected to be lower than the last nor’easter, which flooded much of Cape Cod and seaside towns. Massachusetts officials said 2,700 customers remained without power on Sunday. Thousands more across southern New England also remained without electricity as they prepared for the third nor’easter in 12 days. “It doesn’t happen very often, I’ll say that. It’s not like it hasn’t happened before, but it’s rare,” said Joe Miketta, a Weather Service meteorologist.