Capitals center Evgeny Kuznetsov will not play in Washington’s game against the Philadelphia Flyers on Sunday because of an undisclosed “upper-body” injury that is considered “day-to-day” by the team. Kuznetsov suffered the injury near the end of the second period in Friday night’s game, when he was slashed by New York Islanders defenseman Thomas Hickey. As he was shaking his left arm in apparent pain, he collided awkwardly with the end boards, crunching his left arm against them. Kuznetsov didn’t return for the rest of the game, and Coach Barry Trotz didn’t have an update after, just that Kuznetsov would be reevaluated on Saturday. [Braden Holtby gets back into win column in Capitals’ fourth straight]   With the Capitals in first place in the Metropolitan Division, the team is expected to be cautious with Kuznetsov’s health, and a “day-to-day” diagnosis is seemingly good news because it indicates he won’t be out for an extended period of time. That would be a serious blow to Washington’s postseason chances. The playoffs are 11 games away, and Kuznetsov is the team’s second-leading scorer with 21 goals and 50 assists. He’s been incredibly durable in recent years, playing at least 80 games the past three seasons. Since last week’s game against San Jose, Kuznetsov has been centering a top line with captain Alex Ovechkin and winger Tom Wilson. Without him in the lineup, it is unclear how Trotz will jigger the line combinations. Center Nicklas Backstrom could be reunited with Ovechkin and Wilson, a dependable trio for the majority of the season, and Lars Eller is expected to be elevated to more playing time as the team’s temporary second-line center. Kuznetsov also plays on the top power-play unit. The Capitals have center Jay Beagle to slot in somewhere in the bottom-six forward corps, and though Chandler Stephenson has played wing all season, he has previously played center both in the American Hockey League and in brief stints for Washington. The team also recalled rookie center Travis Boyd earlier this month, so he’s another option up the middle. Trotz will meet with the media again on Sunday at 3 p.m., when he’s expected to provide another update on Kuznetsov. Read more Capitals coverage: Alex Ovechkin could catch Wayne Gretzky as NHL’s all-time leading scorer With the playoffs in mind, Capitals to use final stretch to ‘find out’ what they have The Czech mafia takes root in the Washington Capitals’ locker room