Perhaps the second most fascinating aspect to the stunningly strong ratings of the relaunch of “Roseanne” — after the surprise of a network sitcom getting stunningly strong ratings — was where the show performed the best. The three markets where the first episode of the new season was highest rated were Tulsa, Cincinnati and Kansas City — the sort of red state, heartland locations the show has emulated since it originally aired in 1988. That year, even the fictional Conner family’s home state of Illinois was red, backing George H.W. Bush over Michael Dukakis by two-point margin. Illinois has not voted Republican since. It has become one of the most fervently Democratic states in the country, in fact, a mix of deep blue Chicago and a more mottled color palette in smaller cities and rural areas over the rest of the state. Given the centrality of that red-blue divide to the first episode of the show, we were curious how the real-life politics of the Conners’ Illinois town of Lanford had evolved. Does Roseanne, revealed as a supporter of President Trump in that first episode — uh, spoiler alert — actually live in Trump country? The only problem is Lanford has no real-life politics, since it does not exist. What’s more, the show has offered contradictory clues about where the fictional town is located. The Chicago Tribune isolated two contradictory descriptors of Lanford’s locale over the original run of the show. (We know the Conners have not moved, since the house where most episodes play out is clearly the same one.) The problem is Fulton County, just southwest of Peoria, is more than an hour’s drive from Elgin. There was an outlet mall in Elgin, mind you, called Huntley Outlet Center. It has closed. When it was open, an hour’s drive would take you only to about Rochelle, west of Chicago. There is another outlet mall further south called Chicago Premium Outlets. It is a stretch to say it is in Elgin (it is in Aurora), but it gets us closer to Fulton County. But not enough. Even giving the Conners a two-hour drive to Chicago Premium Outlets, we are still well on the other side of Peoria. So there are three options: If we assume the Conners live in Fulton County, as advertised, then it is not a surprise that Roseanne ended up a Trump supporter. Precinct level data compiled by Ryne Rohla for Decision Desk HQ shows that while the city of Peoria was more densely Democratic-voting in 2016, the more rural region to the southwest voted much more Republican. If we assume the Conners instead lived between Peoria and Elgin, the picture is less clear but generally still the same. Much of the rural area between the two did grow more Republican. Elgin itself is a bit different. Parts of the city (which overlaps Cook and Kane counties) voted more heavily Democratic in 2016 than in 2012. Parts of the less urban area surrounding it did, too. Other parts of the city voted more heavily Republican. Where things really get interesting is when we look at how voting shifted over a longer period of time. Let’s compare not the shift in votes in each county from 2012 to 2016, but the relative vote in each place. So while Cook County — Chicago — voted heavily for Barack Obama in 2012 (by a 49-point margin), it voted more heavily for Hillary Clinton in 2016 (53 points). That happened even as the country on the whole voted more heavily Republican. So Cook County was 45 points more Democratic than the rest of the country in 2012 and 51 points more Democratic than the country in 2016. (Since Clinton won the national popular vote by a bit over 2 points.) That is a shift of four points to the Democratic candidate; a shift of over five points relative to the country overall. Here are the shifts in each county depicted above. Since “Roseanne” debuted in 1988, Chicago and Elgin got more Democratic — more than the stretch between there, and Peoria got more Republican. That increasing split between urban and rural vote preference is not a new revelation. politics  politics Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. What made Trump successful despite losing the popular vote was shifting blue areas just enough to the right to win states around Illinois — Michigan and Wisconsin — by slim margins. He did that, in part, by persuading some Roseanne-esque voters, blue-collar whites, to switch from voting Democrat to voting Republican. That includes Roseanne Barr herself, who was an Obama supporter and now backs Trump. But, putting an exclamation point on the idea that geography is not political destiny, Barr, in real life, lives in one of the most Democratic places in America: Hawaii. In the neighborhood where she lives (on an expansive macadamia nut farm), voters preferred Clinton by 3 to 1 over Trump. Even there, though, there was a shift to the Republicans. In 2012, that region backed local son Barack Obama by 5 to 1 over Mitt Romney.