NEW ORLEANS — Kelly Oubre Jr. returned to his hometown with the goal of spreading love. On Friday, when the Washington Wizards made their only visit of the season to New Orleans, Oubre presented scholarships to 10 seniors who attend his father’s high school alma mater. Oubre, who was raised in the city but left after Hurricane Katrina when he was 9, viewed the $1,000 scholarships to Cohen College Prep students as a chance to give back to the community. “It’s an inner-city school, very troubled kids and just being able to help them is definitely something that I’m trying to do,” Oubre said. “Show my appreciation for the school that raised my dad and the city that raised me as well. It’s just all love.” Also, Oubre gave the students tickets to the game in which the Wizards defeated the Pelicans, 116-97. The students boosted an Oubre cheering section that included scores of family members. [Otto Porter Jr. shakes off hip issue, powers Wizards past Pelicans] Before the game, the extended family nearly took up half a row of courtside seats as they watched Oubre go through his warm-up routine. Playing in front of family might have affected Oubre — he shot just 4 of 14 en route to 11 points and picked up a technical foul. “Probably pressing  little bit,” Oubre said. “It definitely felt like I was trying to be overly aggressive but it’s because I wanted to play so well in front of my people, man. And make sure I played hard. That’s all I can do. I enjoyed myself. I was on the floor playing in front of them.” Noting Oubre’s improved passing, as well as other highlights such as his six rebounds and four steals, Wizards Coach Scott Brooks echoed this assessment. “He played hard,” Brooks said. “He didn’t always play the right way at times. He forced a couple of shots but he played hard. He gave us great energy. Great minutes. He still has to continue to get better and keep improving but I liked how he played.” Oubre’s game and generous hometown act capped a week in which he has attracted nationwide attention for speaking on mental health. [Kelly Oubre Jr. joins NBA players sharing mental health struggles: ‘We’re normal people, man’] On Thursday, Oubre spoke at length with NBC Sports Washington, relating with NBA stars DeMar DeRozan and Kevin Love who have revealed personal battles with depression and anxiety. Following Oubre’s comments — in which he said he too has “suffered from a lot of things” — he has been overwhelmed by the reaction. “I’m just happy that it got to reach people and people definitely felt what I was saying. They could understand that they’re not alone, so at the end of the day it’s a positive to always reach people and make people feel happy because the things I’ve gotten back from my interview has been nothing but positive,” Oubre said. “It’s just a mass group of people … I can’t really reach out to everyone I’d like to but I just want people to know I’m here for them, man. It’s definitely a blessing. If we can get through this together, we can get though anything.” Read more on the NBA: It’s only shooting drills, but five weeks after surgery, John Wall looks ‘good’ The NBA’s mission isn’t to stop tanking. It’s to stop anyone from talking about it. Welcome to the wild, wild West: Eight teams competing for six playoff spots