The Washington Redskins basically swapped Kirk Cousins for Alex Smith by sending Kendall Fuller and a third-round pick to Kansas City and letting Cousins walk in free agency. At 33 years old, Smith is four years older than Cousins, and some have called him an older, slightly cheaper version of the Vikings’ new starting quarterback. Washington doesn’t see it that way, and Coach Jay Gruden said it plainly during an interview session with multiple reporters at the owners annual meeting. “Yeah, without a doubt,” Gruden said when asked if Washington is better off. “I don’t want to compare two players, but we’re always trying to be better at every position. We got better. Alex’s experience is well-noted, and his record the last five years is what it is. You could argue that all day, but we feel very good.” It is difficult to say which quarterback is superior with any reasonable level of certainty, but we can compare numbers and situations. Smith has thrown for 11,030 yards with 61 touchdowns and 20 interceptions in the last three seasons. The 2017 campaign was a career year with 4,042 yards and just five interceptions. He never completed less than 65.3 percent of his passes in those three seasons. Cousins threw for more than 4,000 yards in the last three for a total of 13,176. He has 81 touchdowns and 36 interceptions in that span. Cousins never threw for fewer than 11 interceptions during a single season during that stretch and his low completion percentage was 64.3 in 2017. Cousins, however, had more than 200 more pass attempts in those three seasons. The Chiefs went 31-15 with Smith under center while the Redskins were 24-23-1. Smith ranked No. 9 last season in Pro Football Focus’ overall quarterback grading, while Cousins was No. 19. But Cousins held the advantage in the two previous years. Smith was No. 18 in the league in 2016 and No. 25 in 2015. Cousins was No. 8 in 2016 and No. 13 in 2015. A detailed explanation of the Pro Football Focus grading system can be seen here. [ With little trade leverage, the Redskins were forced to get what they could for Su’a Cravens ] Situations and the players surrounding the quarterback certainly has an affect on the play under center. The Chiefs had the No. 15 (2017), No. 7 (2016) and No. 3 (2015) scoring defenses in the last three seasons. Smith wasn’t required to outscore opponents on a weekly basis like Cousins had to. The Redskins ranked No. 27 (2017), No. 19 (2016) and No. 17 (2015) in the last three seasons. The Redskins, arguably, may have had more offensive weaponry during that time period, but 2017 is an exception. Last season was a mess for Washington’s supporting cast due to injuries on the offensive line, at running back (including breakout receiving back Chris Thompson) and to tight end Jordan Reed. The most available playmakers on a weekly basis were receivers Jamison Crowder, Josh Doctson, Ryan Grant and tight end Vernon Davis. Washington, though, still had receivers Pierre Garcon and DeSean Jackson in 2015 and 2016. [ Redskins need a running back — and this NFL draft offers plenty of options ] Smith had his best offensive surrounding case in 2017 with dynamic rookie running back Kareem Hunt, tight end Travis Kelce and speedy receiver Tyreek Hill. All three were Pro Bowlers last season. The Chiefs were without an injured Jamaal Charles for much of the previous two seasons and relied on Kelce. Receiver Jeremy Maclin was on the roster in 2016 and 2015 while Spencer Ware and Charcandrick West filled in for Charles. There are many factors and variables that go into a quarterback’s play that comparisons can be difficult, but there doesn’t seem to be a significant difference in production over the last three seasons. NOTES: The Redskins waived running back LeShun Daniels on Thursday afternoon. The 2017 undrafted rookie played in four games and had three rushes for 14 yards. He was signed to the practice squad in mid-November and activated to the full roster a week later. Daniels became the fifth Redskins running back to go on injured reserve last season after breaking his hand in practice. The Redskins will add a running back and this draft has lots of good options Redskins sign Pernell McPhee The Redskins won’t be bringing back pass rusher Junior Galette Paul Richardson welcomes the DeSean Jackson comparisons: ‘I look up to him a lot’ Redskins’ Alex Smith explains why he carries giant rocks on the ocean floor