WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — Mike Rizzo wouldn’t do it. Dave Martinez wouldn’t do it. Daniel Murphy didn’t talk to reporters Thursday, but so far, he hasn’t been willing to do it either. Despite all the indications that Murphy will need more time to rebuild than the two weeks remaining between now and Opening Day, no one with the Washington Nationals will rule him out just yet. “I’m not going to rule him out because he’s progressing really well,” said Martinez, the Nationals’ manager. “You just never know with these things. We just want to make sure he is 100 percent right.” His general manager struck a similar tone. “I think we’re optimistic. Those feelings will change when we see … this week will be important for him,” Rizzo said. ” … Obviously we’re not going to rush him. Opening Day is just a day. We’re not going to rush him and force-feed him into anything.” Rizzo said Murphy is running with his full body weight now, though he is still using treadmills as far as anyone has seen. He is taking ground balls on the field, and has been for a week now, but isn’t moving laterally. He is hitting on the field, but not quite moving perfectly. Still, the idea that Murphy will be ready to play in what will likely be chilly Cincinnati temperatures exactly two weeks from Thursday feels a step above optimistic and a step below ludicrous. Martinez and Rizzo also share optimism about Adam Eaton and Michael A. Taylor’s Opening Day readiness, and that feels more reasonable. Both Taylor (right side tightness) and Eaton (torn anterior cruciate ligament) played in a minor league game Thursday, and Martinez hinted that both will be back in the lineup this weekend. Eaton is scheduled to start playing in big league games next week — barring a setback, that is not an if anymore, but a when. “We’re very optimistic for those two guys,” Rizzo said. “They’ve had plenty of at-bats.” Taylor and Eaton both played the field in a minor league game Thursday. Taylor singled in his first at-bat, then took off trying to steal second base — an effort rendered futile by a strikeout at the plate, but one indicative of his comfort. Ryan Zimmerman, who is not battling any injury as far as he has said, did not hit in those games Thursday — though he has been taking at-bats there this spring. Read more: Boswell: Bryce Harper isn’t getting $400 million, and the Nationals’ title window ‘just got bigger’ Trevor Gott and the complicated periphery of the Nationals bullpen ‘The first spring break of my life’: Jayson Werth, still unemployed, takes in son’s ballgame sports  nationals-journal Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. As Nationals reassign Bryan Harper, could Bryce’s brother still break into majors this season? Several Nationals are performing at an elite level this spring. Could they be peaking too early? Do the Nationals’ ailing players have enough time to get ready for the regular season?