A 14-year-old boy who was fatally struck by a charter bus near the Tidal Basin on March 9 had been visiting the District as part of an eighth-grade class field trip from North Carolina. An attorney for the family, which lives in Wilkesboro, N.C., about 55 miles west of Winston-Salem, identified the youth as Hunter Brown, a student at Central Wilkes Middle School. Hunter’s mother, Erricka Faw, who was with her son when he died Thursday at Children’s Hospital in Washington, did not want to speak publicly. “What the family has undergone the past six days are beyond what most of us can comprehend,” said her attorney, David Daggett. Hunter was struck and pinned under the bus about 7 p.m. on March 9 on West Basin Drive and Independence Avenue SW, near the memorial to the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. U.S. Park Police are investigating the incident and have not commented on details. [Teen pinned under tour bus near Tidal Basin] Daggett said Hunter and his classmates were returning from having visited the King memorial and were boarding their bus. He said another bus moved or was driven forward and struck Hunter, pinning him under its front section. The charter bus that struck Hunter is owned by QT Transport, based in Virginia. In a statement released through the American Bus Association, the company expressed its “thoughts and prayers” for the family and said it will “fully cooperate with the Park Police as we work to find the cause of this accident.” A representative did not comment further. Daggett said that the trip was an annual excursion for the school’s eighth-grade students and that most of the class attended. He said many of Hunter’s classmates witnessed the incident, and organizers cut the trip short and returned to North Carolina. He said they had been midway through their trip. [Teen dies six days after being struck by tour bus] Wilkesboro has a population of about 3,500 and is in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains. Daggett said he is conducting his own investigation and working with Park Police. “This is a situation that every parent can relate to,” he said. “Every kid when in the eighth grade takes a trip to Washington.” The attorney described Hunter as a typical middle-schooler who was active in his church.