LONDON — British Prime Minister Theresa May on Wednesday ordered the immediate expulsion of 23 Russian diplomats believed to be involved in espionage, in the first reprisals against Moscow for a chemical attack on a former double agent. May, speaking to Parliament, outlined other responses, including a halt to high-level meetings with Russian officials and the cancellation of a planned visit to Britain by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov. She also said the royal family and government ministers would boycott this summer’s World Cup soccer tournament in Moscow. May repeated the conclusion of British investigators that Russia had either deployed or lost control of a dangerous nerve agent used in the attack targeting former spy Sergei Skripal, 66, and his 33-year-old daughter, Yulia. The prime minister said Russia’s defiant response to her request for explanation has “demonstrated complete disdain for the gravity of these events.” “Instead, they have treated the use of a military-grade nerve agent in Europe with sarcasm, contempt and defiance,” she told lawmakers while announcing the reprisals. The British leader gave no further details on the Russian diplomats ordered out of the country but said they were deemed “undeclared intelligence officers.” She called it the largest expulsion of Russian diplomats from Britain since Cold War-era retributions in the 1970s. May said more countermeasures — some clandestine — were being considered. She said Britain sought support from the United States, European Union, United Nations and NATO, but she did not mention any specific requests for allies to join in the reprisals. Significantly, the prime minister framed the use of nerve agent in the quiet English town of Salisbury as the first chemical weapons attack on a NATO territory since the organization’s founding. “It is not in our national interest to break off all dialogue between the United Kingdom and the Russian Federation. But in the aftermath of this appalling act against our country, this relationship cannot be the same,” May said in Parliament. The former Russian double agent Skripal was jailed in Russia in 2006 for selling state secrets to British intelligence for 10 years, but he was released in 2010 as part of a high-profile spy swap. He and his daughter remain in critical condition at a Salisbury hospital after being found comatose on a park bench on March 4. British Detective Sgt. Nick Bailey, who responded to the scene, was hospitalized but is in stable condition.  Following May’s remarks, the Russian Foreign Ministry denounced her accusation as an “unprecedentedly crude provocation” and a new blow to relations.   “The British government has opted for confrontation with Russia,” the Foreign Ministry statement continued. “To be sure, our response will not be long in coming.” [What a brave Russian scientist told me about the nerve agent ] As May spoke, a British counterterrorism unit opened a second investigation into the unexplained death of a sworn enemy of Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Telegraph newspaper described Nikolai Glushkov, 68, as “the right-hand man of the deceased oligarch Boris Berezovsky, Mr Putin’s one-time fiercest rival.” Glushkov was found dead at his London home on Monday.  In Parliament on Wednesday, lawmakers took turns condemning the nerve-agent attack and calling Russia a rogue state that should be punished. Several cited May’s promise minutes earlier that there is no place for corrupt Russians and their money in London, and they asked the prime minister why her government would not go after the elites with ordinances already on the books to target individuals with “unexplained wealth.”     [How the diplomatic fight between Russia and the U.S. unfolded] British politicians and commentators said May could further employ a range of diplomatic and financial sanctions — from clamping down on Russian oligarchs’ property-buying binge in London to tossing out more embassy staff. Britain’s Foreign Ministry on Wednesday also called for an urgent meeting of the U.N. Security Council to update members on the investigation into the nerve-agent attack. Russia, as part of the permanent five nations on the council, holds veto power over any possible U.N. moves to come. In Brussels, the home of the NATO defense alliance, British diplomats outlined their government’s findings to their alliance peers, making clear they believed the attack had security consequences for all 29 members. “Allies expressed deep concern at the first offensive use of a nerve agent on alliance territory since NATO’s foundation,” the organization said in a statement. “NATO regards any use of chemical weapons as a threat to international peace and security.” But the British diplomats held back from triggering the formal processes that could escalate the NATO response and pull other nations into a conflict with Russia, a NATO official said, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the closed-door meeting. The attack comes at a delicate moment for members of the Western security club that usually have little trouble presenting a united face against Russia. E.U. leaders plan to discuss the attack at a previously-scheduled summit next week, but Britain’s in-process divorce from bloc limits European appetites to make sacrifices for London in that venue. And Europe is also fighting with Washington about President Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum, a dispute that could impede any transatlantic response. “At a time of fake news spreading, meddling in our elections, and attacks on people on our soil with nerve agent, the response must not be transatlantic bickering but transatlantic unity,” European Council President Donald Tusk wrote on Twitter. He offered his “full solidarity” with May. But a European diplomat said that if May asked for extra E.U. sanctions against Russia, it would be “ironic,” since British voters opted against the support and unity of the European Union when they voted to leave in 2016. The diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss a delicate issue, said that although many European leaders are appalled at the unprecedented nerve agent attack, there would probably not be the 28-nation E.U. unity required to apply sanctions. A spokesman for 10 Downing Street said the British leader discussed the attack with Trump, who said Washington was “with the U.K. all the way” and that Russia “must provide unambiguous answers as to how this nerve agent came to be used.” In his last remarks, just hours after being fired by Trump via Twitter, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson warned, “Much work remains to respond to the troubling behavior and actions on the part of the Russian government.” Tillerson said: “Russia must assess carefully as to how its actions are in the best interest of the Russian people and of the world more broadly. Continuing on their current trajectory is likely to lead to greater isolation on their part, a situation which is not in anyone’s interest.” Tillerson’s remarks went beyond those of the White House, where spokeswoman Sarah Sanders on Monday called the attack “an outrage,” but did not mention Russia. May also spoke with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. “They agreed that the international community should coordinate closely as the investigation developed and in the wake of Russia’s response,” said her spokesman. The Russian response signaled a tit-for-tat series of measures to come. “The British, without presenting evidence of any kind, have said Russia is guilty. This is without precedent,” said Valentina Matvienko, speaker of Russia’s upper house of parliament. “We, Russia, should therefore react swiftly, strongly, and in kind.” Russia essentially blew off May’s midnight deadline for an explanation of how the deadly Novichok nerve agent ended up in Salisbury, famous for its nearby ruins of Stonehenge.  After Lavrov told Britain on Tuesday that Moscow had no intention of responding to May’s ultimatum, the ministry’s spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, dialed up the heat on an evening talk show on one of the leading state-run channels. “No one can come before their national Parliament and say: I give Russia 24 hours,” said Zakharova. “What kind of conversation is that in principle?” She then appeared to chastise London for not behaving like a nuclear power, and took a shot at Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson. “When a country’s Foreign Ministry is led by people who have absolutely nothing to do with foreign policy, who have built their career around populism, they have no idea either about the organization for the prohibition of nuclear weapons or the relevant [chemical weapons convention].” She was apparently referring to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. “To them, it is normal to go out and start intimidating,” Zakharova said. “Don’t. There is no need.” world europe  Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. In a conference call with journalists in Moscow Wednesday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that theories surrounding Skripal’s poisoning are not the Kremlin’s problem. He reiterated that Moscow’s official position, that it was not involved and demands proof, has been delivered through diplomatic channels. Peskov said that Moscow does not accept London’s accusations and hopes the West will come to its senses and engage Russia in a joint investigation into the poisoning of Skripal.   Bodner reported from Moscow. Karla Adam in London, Michael Birnbaum in Brussels and Brian Murphy in Washington contributed to this report.   Read more    Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news