Big crowds are expected in Washington on Saturday for the March for Our Lives, an anti-gun-violence rally organized by students, that could bring as many as 500,000 protesters to downtown Washington. The event will cause travel and traffic problems. Motorists will encounter day-long road closures near the Mall. Public transit users should expect bus detours and delays, as well as long waits at Metro stations and crowded platforms and trains. “Plan ahead and be patient,” D.C. Police Chief Peter Newsham advised participants and visitors. “Be prepared for road closures, increased traffic and parking restrictions. It is safe to say that generally getting around in our city starting in the early morning hours of Saturday, March 24, will likely be more challenging than most other Saturdays here in the District.” Officials are asking visitors and participants to use public transportation.  Metro will open at 7 a.m. and provide rush-hour-level service throughout the day to accommodate the march crowds and other visitors. Thousands of tourists are also in town for the annual National Cherry Blossom Festival. The good news is there are no scheduled station closings or track work. [ It’s a busy week as D.C. prepares for March for Our Lives and Cherry Blossom Festival kickoff ] Road restrictions will be in place, and parking will be prohibited along the march route. Traffic control officers will be guiding traffic at various intersections. Visitors should expect tight security, including bag checks to enter the rally area. Leave large backpacks and other prohibited items such weapons and drones at home. Whether you are coming down for the march by car, bus, or transit, the key is to have a plan, be ready to walk and be patient as you encounter delays and crowding along your trip. What is the March for Our Lives about? The rally is planned by survivors of the Feb. 14 school shooting in Parkland, Fla., that left 17 people dead. The march is to demand legislative action in Congress that addresses gun violence and school safety. “No special interest group, no political agenda is more critical than timely passage of legislation to effectively address the gun violence issues that are rampant in our country,” according to the organizer’s website. Demonstrators will gather for a rally along Washington’s Pennsylvania Avenue. Thousands of young people, their parents and supporters are expected at the event, which is one of more than 800 demonstrations planned by students around the world, according to organizers. I’m planning to drive. What should I know? Don’t. Numerous streets will be closed Saturday, but there are a few streets that will close as early as Thursday night and Friday night in advance of the event. The perimeter for the closures extends for several blocks and is bounded by E Street NW on the north, Independence Avenue SW on the south, 14th Street on the west, First Street NW to the east. Additional streets may close to traffic based on public safety concerns, police said. D.C. Police say the following streets will close to traffic at 7 p.m. Thursday and reopen about 10 p.m. Sunday: The following roads will close at 7 p.m. Friday and reopen about 10 p.m. Sunday: The following roads will close starting at 3 a.m. Saturday and will reopen about 6 p.m. Saturday: Traffic will be allowed to travel eastbound and westbound, but will not be able to travel northbound from the following streets: Traffic will not be allowed to travel northbound on the following streets: Throughout the event, Independence Avenue from Third to 14th streets SW will be open to travel in both directions, but Independence Avenue may be closed to all vehicle traffic should public safety concerns dictate. The 12th Street Tunnel from Interstate 395 eastbound will be open. All traffic must travel westbound on Constitution Avenue NW. The tunnel may be closed if any public safety concerns arise, police said. The Ninth Street tunnel will be closed for the duration of the event, but the Third Street Tunnel from I-395 will be open in both directions of travel. Besides the day closures, parking will be strictly prohibited along the route during the duration of the event, police said. Cars that are not moved by 3 a.m. Saturday within the event perimeter will be towed, police said. Where can I park? At the Metro. Metro has about 60,000 parking spaces in 29 lots and 22 garages throughout the region available for use. Metro charges a flat $2 fee on Saturday. It can be paid with a SmarTrip and most stations accept credit cards for paying daily parking fees. Downtown. Several parking lots downtown are within walking distance to the gathering location. Use a parking app such as SpotHero and ParkingPanda to book parking. Bus parking. Charter buses parking at RFK Stadium is available. RFK has availability for up to 1,200 charter buses. If you arrive at RFK, you can board a train at Stadium-Armory station to the Mall area. How else can I get there? Metro. Trains will start running at 7 a.m. and will run every eight minutes from the end-of-line stations, with additional trains between Grosvenor and Silver Spring on the Red Line. Stations served by multiple lines will see trains more frequently. For example, Metro says, trains will run every two to four minutes in downtown. [ Metro will run extra trains for ‘March for Our Lives’ and cherry blossom festival opening ] All stations are scheduled to be open and there are no plans for track work. But Metro says some stations may be closed to manage crowds. For example, some station entrances may be designated “entry only” or “exit only” at various times of the day. The closest stations to the event stage are Archives on the Yellow and Green lines and Federal Triangle on the Blue, Orange and Silver lines. Red Line riders can use the Gallery Place exit and walk to the Mall area. Riders are encouraged to purchase SmarTrip cards in advance to avoid the crush at fare machines. Each rider age 5 or older needs their own card to enter the system. Metro officials also recommend that you plan your trip so that you don’t have to transfer between lines. There is a station near the Mall on each line. Metrobus is running regular Saturday service. Some routes that stop near the Mall may be detoured and delayed because of the road closures. For a full list, consult Metro’s Trip Planner (www.wmata.com/schedules/trip-planner). The regular Metrobus fare is $2 using a SmarTrip card or cash. DC Circulator. The Circulator will suspend service on the Mall route. But all other routes, including the Georgetown-Union Station (which stops a short walk away from the Mall) will operate normal weekend hours. The Circulator fare is $1 using a SmarTrip card or cash.  A shuttle bus service, provided with DC Circulator buses, will be available from RFK to the Mall from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. D.C. Streetcar. The streetcar will open at 8 a.m. Saturday. Visitors arriving by charter bus at RFK can access the D.C. Streetcar from Lot 6, at the Oklahoma Avenue and Benning Road NE stop, about a half-mile from the stadium. The streetcar is free and runs to Union Station, which is a short walk from the Mall. Capital Bikeshare. If you plan to use Capital Bikeshare, check its website or the Capital Bikeshare app before your trip to see which stations are available. For more information, visit ­capitalbikeshare.com. More biking. If you want to ride your bike or use any of the dockless bike-sharing systems, there are bike racks across downtown and the Mall areas. Remember, however, bikes are not allowed in the rally area or the march route. What can I bring and what should I leave at home? Organizers are asking participants to travel light and remember backpacks and bags are subject to search. These are some of the prohibited items: See the March for Our Lives website for a full list.