President Trump’s televised freak-show bipartisan meetings with top congressional officials are starting to hit him where it hurts. On Fox News, that is. “Imagine if Barack Obama had said that,” said Tucker Carlson on Thursday night on his eponymous Fox News program. The host was referring to Trump’s remark in a Wednesday meeting with lawmakers regarding gun policy. “Take the guns first, go through due process second,” said Trump. Many were astonished, though they shouldn’t have been: Trump has no core convictions, just core whims. As a matter of fact, the president espoused other gun restrictions, including tough background checks and measures to otherwise restrict access to firearms. All of which Carlson couldn’t abide. “The Second Amendment protects your rights to bear arms. It doesn’t say that obliquely or metaphorically. It says it explicitly. And the Supreme Court several times has interpreted it that way, explicitly protecting your rights to bear arms,” argued the host. “You can’t lose that right or any other right. The right to worship freely, the right to say what you want without due process. Period. Those rights are what make us citizens and not mere subjects of the powerful. And the president needs to be reminded of that.” opinions  erik-wemple Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false   Please provide a valid email address. Actually: Trump’s impromptu policy meanderings didn’t necessarily threaten any constitutional rights. “Like most rights, the right secured by the Second Amendment is not unlimited,” decreed the Supreme Court in the landmark 2008 case District of Columbia, et al. v. Heller. “From Blackstone through the 19th-century cases, commentators and courts routinely explained that the right was not a right to keep and carry any weapon whatsoever in any manner whatsoever and for whatever purpose.” The Trump-for-president campaign pledged to pursue policies allowing people to “own the ‘firearm of their choice’ and for state-issued concealed-carry permits allowing residents to carry handguns to be valid in every state,” noted PolitiFact in a summary. Just last month, for instance, the Supreme Court declined to hear two California cases challenging gun-related measures. That caveat aside, Carlson is gradually adjusting a year-long MO of deflecting negative stories about the president. Time and again, the quick-witted host found creative and entertaining ways of hammering liberals for this-or-that offense while Trump and his charges were stacking up scandalous headlines. “Look, I’m not defending Trump,” Carlson said as he ripped a Democratic lawmaker last September. That was one of many examples of the genre. When Trump invites the media to film high-profile legislative negotiations, and then proceeds to stray several area codes away from his previously professed positions, Carlson’s principles deploy. The pattern also unfolded in January, when Trump declared that he’d pretty much accept whatever immigration policies Congress promulgated. “President Trump, you’ll remember, ran for office promising to fix immigration, make good deals and, in general, do a better job than the corrupt, incompetent lawmakers, he said, were wrecking the country. And he was right, they were wrecking the country,” said Carlson on his Jan. 9 program. “And yet, today, in a remarkable twist, the president held a televised meeting with the very swamp creatures he once denounced. He told them he trusted them to craft immigration policy without his input.” The disillusions of Carlson continue one of the fascinating tribal stories of the Trump era. How much outrage, how much pettiness, how many policy betrayals will conservatives stomach before reaching some very obvious conclusions about our president? Broken rudders on immigration and gun rights appear to be Carlson’s bridge-too-far betrayals. Others may have different ones: As we documented in a previous post, Fox News host Sean Hannity didn’t have the courage or the principle to face his viewers a la Carlson. Following Trump’s meeting with lawmakers, he gaslighted his audience by skipping over Trump’s embrace of gun restrictions and hammering “Democrats” for embracing them. Laura Ingraham, the other main prime-time anchor at Fox News, said on Wednesday night, “Twitter blew up, social media blew up, because people watching this didn’t know what the president was advocating or saying, and at one point, Dianne Feinstein said, what are we going to do about these weapons of war,” said Ingraham. “And he basically seemed to say, well, we should look at that too…It was very difficult to follow. She seemed to be rubbing her hands together and saying, goody. Maybe this was all a show. I know you and I are big fans of the president, but this was a wild thing. It was not cool for a lot of people who believe in the Second Amendment.” To paraphrase CNN’s Jake Tapper, Trump’s trampling of truth and decency didn’t much offend the prime-timers at Fox News. But stray from conservative orthodoxy on immigration and guns? That’s trouble.