Virginia’s Tony Bennett was named Associated Press men’s college basketball coach of the year in an announcement released on Thursday, marking the second time in his career he has won the award. The Cavaliers, who finished first in the season’s final AP poll (there is not one released after the NCAA tournament), went 31-3 this season, including winning an ACC tournament championship and going 17-1 in the conference during the regular season. They also became the first No. 1 seed in NCAA tournament history to lose to a No. 16 when Maryland Baltimore County staged a 74-54 upset in the round of 64. Voting for the award was completed before the start of the NCAA tournament, where Virginia was the top overall seed out of the South Region. “They experienced things a lot of guys don’t,” Bennett, who also was coach of the year in 2007 at Washington State, told the AP from San Antonio, site of this weekend’s Final Four. “That kind of success? Oh my gosh, and then that loss? But again, their body of work deserves to be celebrated. “And then so much of what society looks at, it begs the question, is it just about how you do in March? Or is it about the whole thing? It’s a fair debate [on] what matters, but I told them I wouldn’t trade this team for anything.” Bennett got 50 out of 65 votes from AP top 25 writers. Tennessee’s Rick Barnes finished second after the Volunteers went 26-9 and earned a berth in the NCAA tournament. Tennessee was picked to finish 13th out of 14 teams in the SEC in the preseason. The Cavaliers, meantime, were picked to finish sixth in the ACC in preseason voting but went on to become the first program to win 17 games and go 9-0 on the road in the conference during the regular season. Its only loss in the regular season came against Virginia Tech, 61-60, at John Paul Jones Arena. Bennett guided the Cavaliers to two of the most memorable wins in his nine years at the school, beating Duke, 65-63, at Cameron Indoor Stadium for the first time since 1995 and rallying past Louisville, 67-66, in one of the most improbable comebacks of the season. Virginia trailed the Cardinals by four with less than a second to play but got two free throws from guard Ty Jerome and a three-pointer off the glass at the buzzer by De’Andre Hunter for the final margin. Hunter broke his wrist during a fall in the ACC tournament semifinals against Clemson but continued to play. The Cavaliers won, 64-58, before dispatching North Carolina in the title game, 71-63, at Barclays Center. Two days after the ACC tournament, Virginia announced Hunter, a redshirt freshman, would be out for the remainder of the season. The Cavaliers sorely missed the ACC sixth man of the year when they faced UMBC. Virginia went 4 for 22 from beyond the three-point arc and allowed an opponent to score in the 70s for the first time this season. “I said, ‘How you respond to this will matter to your moms and dads, to your brothers, your sisters your friends,’ ” Bennett said. “If they see you’re not fake about it, that yeah, of course you’re going to be discouraged and down after a loss like, but that you’re okay. You can live with it. “I said, ‘You don’t know the power that that’s going to have in their life and your life.’ ” More college basketball: With four No. 1 seeds in women’s Final Four, everyone needs to be at their best Brewer: In this year’s Final Four, the one-and-done is done. The timing is ideal. John Beilein recruited Moritz Wagner to Michigan over a big German dinner and a beer sports  sports Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. After two weeks of madness, one darling and three cuddly behemoths remain Feinstein: Naismith Hall of Fame finally does right by Lefty and votes in Driesell The NCAA tournament is great — except for the actual basketball. Here’s how to fix that.