An experienced Cirque du Soleil acrobat performing an intricate aerial routine plummeted to his death in front of a live audience in Tampa on Saturday night. The company identified the cast member as Yann Arnaud, a Frenchman who had worked as a Cirque du Soleil acrobat for 15 years. He died at a hospital. It was the second onstage death in Cirque du Soleil history. The incident brought an abrupt end to the show, titled “VOLTA,” which takes place under an old-school circus big-top tent in Tampa. Audience members were at first told that the show would be briefly interrupted, then learned that it was canceled. “The entire Cirque du Soleil family is in shock and devastated by this tragedy,” said Daniel Lamarre, president and CEO of Cirque du Soleil Entertainment Group. “Yann had been with us for over 15 years and was loved by all who had the chance to know him. Over the coming days and weeks, our focus will be on supporting Yann’s family and our employees, especially the VOLTA team, as we go through these difficult times together.” The statement said the company is gathering more information about Arnaud’s fall and cooperating with investigating authorities. The rest of the weekend’s shows in Tampa were canceled, and Cirque du Soleil was issuing refunds to customers. Arnaud was one of a group of acrobats performing a straps number on Saturday night. A video of the performance reviewed by The Washington Post showed the aerialists on the circular stage, flanked by drummers. During the performance, Arnaud and another cast member performed a duet of sorts. Each man clutched a red strap and performed flips and spins, suspended only by a hand gripping the straps of intertwined ropes. As the straps were pulled higher, the men linked their free arms and performed interwoven acrobatics as they spun high above the stage. They separated, flying off in different directions over the crowd, and Arnaud briefly went out of the camera’s frame. When he was visible again, the video showed him losing his grip and dropping to the stage. There was an audible gasp from the audience. Off-camera, someone shouted, “Oh, Lord.” Several Cirque du Soleil employees jumped onto the stage and rushed over to the downed acrobat as the other performer dangled from his rope, uninjured. An announcer told the crowd that “the show has been temporarily interrupted.” Ben Ritter, a Tampa man who attended the show, told the Tampa Bay Times that when Arnaud hit the stage, he was “out cold and not moving.” Cirque du Soleil, French for “Circus of the Sun,” is the largest theatrical producer in the world, according to the Chicago Tribune. It is known for “cutting-edge shows featuring aerialists, acrobats and contortionists” and has performed for 160 million spectators in 48 countries. It was founded by several people, including Guy Laliberte, a busker-turned-billionaire who sold it to a U.S. private equity firm in 2015. This is the third death connected to a Cirque du Soleil show in the past five years. In 2016, technician Olivier Rochette, the son of one of the founders of the circus, died when he was struck by a telescoping lift while he and other workers were setting up for a Las Vegas performance of “Luzia,” according to the BBC. The show faced its toughest scrutiny after a performer’s death in 2013. Acrobat Sarah Guyard-Guillot fell face-first, nearly 100 feet to the floor, when her safety wire detached during her rapid ascent. After an Occupational Safety and Health Administration investigation into her death, Calum Pearson, vice president of Cirque du Soleil’s Resident Shows Worldwide, told Vanity Fair that Guillot-Guyard’s death was a ‘million-to-one’ freak accident that was mostly a product of human error. Read more: Legend says a load of Union gold went missing during the Civil War. Did the FBI just find it? lifestyle  arts-and-entertainment       true Voraciously newsletter A 12-week series to help you become a better cook and show off your skills. Please provide a valid email address. Video shows the moment a U.S. marshal killed a gang member lunging for a witness Watch the moment drivers stopped to rescue an infant abandoned on a freezing street Dentists keep dying of this lung disease. The CDC can’t figure out why.