WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — No one expected Bryan Harper, brother of Washington Nationals superstar Bryce Harper, to crack the Nationals’ Opening Day roster. That he played well enough to earn an invite to major league spring training, about 15 months after undergoing Tommy John surgery on his elbow, was the real achievement of his spring. “Oh yeah, I appreciated it,” Bryan Harper said. “When you get something taken away from you for 18 months, it’s quite frustrating.” The 28-year-old was so near the majors when the injury occurred, on the cusp of a September call-up that most people thought of as a chance for Bryce Harper to play with his brother — but, in reality, would have been the culmination of the elder Harper’s own long and grueling baseball journey. The Nationals reassigned him to minor league camp Tuesday night, meaning he will not make the Opening Day roster. But he showed enough to renew his quest for a call-up sometime soon, even as he remains in the process of rebuilding arm strength, as opposed to honing his stuff. “From where he was last year to now, to come here in camp and pitch in the big leagues, he did great,” Nationals Manager Dave Martinez said. “I know he was excited about it. He’ll build from that. I told him, ‘Build the arm strength. Get stronger. But you’re going to be fine.’ He gained a lot of confidence in camp, and that’s good to see.” [Joe Dillon, the ‘best assistant in baseball,’ has brought a novel approach to the Nationals] Martinez’s stance on Harper’s future was firm: If he stays healthy, he is a legitimate contender for a big league spot. His two-seamer plays at the highest levels. His slider is good enough to complement it. Currently, Harper still has a horde of lefties ahead of him on the organizational depth chart. But if he rebuilds, he can climb. “The biggest thing is his health,” Martinez said. ” … If he continues to do what he does and build, I don’t see why [he can’t contend for a big league spot].” Harper’s last outing came Monday against the Detroit Tigers when he allowed a homer as he earned his first save of the spring. He finished with a 5.40 ERA in five outings and innings pitched, and allowed opposing hitters a .286 batting average against — numbers with which he wasn’t happy, but tried to be patient. “They say the command is the last [to come after surgery], and I think that’s what I’m going through right now,” Harper said. “Not just pure command, but the mechanics of getting everything linked up.” As he wrestled with the long process of rebuilding habits, his teammates — many of whom have undergone Tommy John surgery, too — told him to take it slow, reminded him “you’re good,” and told him to “keep doing your thing.” “It’s good to hear that from other people,” Harper said, “but I’m my own worst critic.” Now, he will continue rebuilding in minor league camp, where Nationals staff will likely be more forgiving of Harper than he is of himself, where results matter far less, where he can allow himself time to reestablish routine. He was not the only reliever to head back to the minors Tuesday evening. Wander Suero and Jaron Long went, too, meaning the Nationals have 15 pitchers left in camp contending for seven or eight bullpen spots. Five of them — Sean Doolittle, Ryan Madson, Shawn Kelley and Joaquin Benoit — are guaranteed money and likely big league spots. They will be joined by two lefties, from the pool of Sammy Solis, Enny Romero, Matt Grace and Tim Collins. Lefty Tommy Milone will start Thursday, and does not seem likely to stick in the bullpen over any of the rest. Right-handers Trevor Gott and Austin Adams have both impressed this spring, but have options and will start in Class AAA Syracuse if necessary. Surprising right-hander Chris Smith and lefty Ismael Guillon also remain in camp, having impressed decision-makers enough to earn a longer look than others. With two weeks until Opening Day, the Nationals are whittling their bullpen into shape. Harper will not be a part of it, at least at first. But he is back and building, and as his brother commands the baseball world’s attention this season, Bryan Harper will be resuming his own major league dream. Read more: Several Nationals are performing at an elite level this spring. Could they be peaking too early? Do the Nationals’ ailing players have enough time to get ready for the regular season? Fifteen years in, Nationals pitcher Edwin Jackson still trying to extend his journey Matt Reynolds making push for Nationals’ Opening Day roster but may be just outside With two weeks until they head north, Nationals have work to do