CACI International, an Arlington-based defense contractor, is making a move to acquire CSRA, a government IT services conglomerate, in a $7.2 billion deal that could set off a Beltway bidding war among a pair of major Washington-area defense contractors, according to a report Sunday in the Wall Street Journal. The potential deal comes a month after General Dynamics said it sought to swallow up CSRA for $6.8 billion cash and $2.8 billion debt. The Journal reported that CACI is offering $44 per share compared with the General Dynamics offer of $40.75 a share. CACI and CSRA did not immediately respond to requests for comment. General Dynamics declined to comment. business technology the-switch     false after3th true   Please provide a valid email address. Under President Trump, the defense budget would grow significantly, and initiatives to modernize government IT systems could create new opportunities for government IT contractors. The Pentagon is working on a plan to move its computing networks to the cloud, in a winner-take-all contract that could be worth billions of dollars over many years. CSRA is involved in a separate effort to move Defense Department systems to the cloud through a $500 million contract known as milCloud 2.0. The new federal spending plan could breathe new life into the federal IT services industry, which was hit hard by the “sequestration” budget cuts that emerged from a 2011 budget deal. CSRA itself was created as part of a wave of consolidation that followed, as what was then known as SRA merged with the government services unit of Computer Sciences. Falls Church-based General Dynamics, which has relied on big hardware programs such as the Columbia-class nuclear submarine and the M1 Abrams tank, surprised many in the industry last month with its attempt to move more aggressively into the IT services market. General Dynamics's own IT business, which is based in Fairfax and operates as a unit within the broader company, has registered revenue declines in recent quarters. But in a call with analysts shortly after the bid was announced, Phebe Novakovic, chief executive officer of General Dynamics, said it made sense for the company, “making it [a] better, stronger, more viable competitor over time — immediately, frankly, we believe — in that IT services space.”