Airlines canceled or delayed hundreds of flights Tuesday, and hundreds more could be grounded Wednesday as another storm developed along the Mid-Atlantic coast, bringing a combination of rain, sleet and snow. By late afternoon, more than 600 Tuesday flights had been canceled, along with 2,000 flights scheduled for Wednesday, according to FlightAware. Most of the affected flights had destinations or departures in the Northeast corridor, including at the Washington region’s three airports. “The entire region should expect disruptions Wednesday morning, including school closings, a difficult commute, and air travel delays and cancellations,” said Jason Samenow, chief meteorologist at The Washington Post. This could be the Washington region’s biggest snowstorm of this year, Samenow said. Downtown D.C. and areas to the south could get two to 5 inches of snow and areas north 4 to 8 inches. The precipitation is likely to affect air travel Wednesday, especially between mid-morning and early afternoon — when snow may be heaviest, Samenow said, but he added: “This probably won’t be a snow event that cripples airports and shuts down everything, so check your flight status.” [ Washington’s biggest snowstorm of the winter likely Wednesday, starting before dawn ] Amtrak said it also will make modifications to rail service along the Northeast Corridor on Wednesday. The railroad has canceled more than two dozen Acela trains and another two dozen Northeast Regional trains scheduled for Wednesday between Washington and Boston. “Full service will be restored when weather conditions allow us to safely do so,” Amtrak said in a Tweet. Airports are asking travelers to monitor their flight status and check before leaving for the airport. A number of airlines are waiving change fees in anticipation of the storm that is expected to affect major airports from Washington to Boston. The nation’s four biggest carriers — American, Delta, United and Southwest — have flexible change policies for travelers in the Northeast. [ First day of spring threatens to bring biggest snowfall of the season ] American Airlines said early Tuesday that it was reducing operations, canceling more than 400 flights Tuesday, at Reagan National and Philadelphia International airports. More cancellations were likely Wednesday impacting the airline’s New York and Boston hubs. Officials at Baltimore-Washington International Airport said crews are on the ground preparing the airfield for the storm and travelers are urged to check with  airlines for updated flight status.