Washington Capitals forward T.J. Oshie didn’t play the final 9:55 of Friday’s game against the Carolina Hurricanes because of an undisclosed “lower-body” injury. The severity of the injury is unknown — Coach Barry Trotz said Oshie will be re-evaluated on Saturday — and with just four games left in the regular season, the Capitals don’t want to take any risks with one of their top scorers. “We’re a little ultra-cautious right now because we’re getting close [to the playoffs],” Trotz said. “We’ll see where we are.” [ Capitals continue to experiment, and they don’t get a good result ] Oshie got the secondary assist on the Capitals’ only goal of the 4-1 loss, and after enduring multiple scoring droughts in the middle of the season, he has five goals and five assists this month with nine points in his last nine games. Though his production has fallen off from his career-best 33-goal campaign last season, Oshie is still Washington’s fifth-leading scorer with 17 goals and 28 assists. He missed six games earlier this season with a concussion. Oshie finished with 14:04 of ice time on Friday night, and he didn’t record a shot on goal. His last shift was short, just 33 seconds, though he didn’t appear to suffer an injury at that point in the game. The Capitals won’t practice on Saturday, and they play the Penguins in Pittsburgh on Sunday night. More on the Capitals: Capitals punch their postseason ticket with a little help from Sidney Crosby sports  washington-capitals Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. ‘The crown gets pretty heavy’: Capitals happy to fly under the radar for a change Shane Gersich impresses in first game with Capitals, but will he stick? Capitals are better late, with equalizer at end of regulation and winner in OT