San Francisco police are searching for suspended Raiders player Aldon Smith, after he fled the scene of an alleged incident of domestic violence on Saturday evening. In a statement Sunday, police asked for the public’s assistance in locating the 28-year-old pass-rusher. Smith has been on indefinite suspension from the NFL since November 2015 for violations of its substance-abuse policy and other legal infractions. After picking Smith up following his release by the 49ers in August 2015, the Raiders signed Smith to a two-year contract in April 2016, but he has yet to play for the team under that deal, and this weekend’s incident makes it less likely that he will ever appear again in the NFL. In its statement, police said that the unidentified victim suffered “non-life-threatening injuries” and identified Smith to them as the assailant. He was said to have fled before officers arrived. The SFPD did not immediately respond to requests from The Washington Post for more information, including whether the department has been able to make contact with him. Late Sunday evening, Smith posted to Instagram a photo of what appeared to be pavement, adding in a caption that “you all are wrong.” Wtfoh you all are wrong A post shared by  Aldon Smith (@aldonsmith) on Mar 4, 2018 at 6:57pm PST  In February, Smith got engaged to fitness model Shawna McKnight, according to TMZ Sports. The website reported that he popped the question on Valentine’s Day at a San Francisco restaurant while seated next to legendary former 49ers quarterback Joe Montana. McKnight told TMZ Sports that they had been dating for just four months, but that they had quickly fallen in love. She reportedly added that they had not picked a wedding date, as their priority was to make sure Smith got reinstated by the NFL. A first-round pick by the 49ers in 2011, Smith made an immediate impact by racking up 33.5 sacks and five forced fumbles in his first two seasons, but his off-field issues soon began to mount. When he was released by San Francisco after being charged with driving under the influence, hit-and-run and vandalism, Smith already had three other arrests, two for DUI and one for illegal possession of assault weapons, to his name. In 2014, Smith was detained by police at Los Angeles International Airport for making bomb threats, and later in the year, he served a nine-game suspension for violating the NFL’s personal conduct and substance-abuse policies. After being picked up by the Raiders, he missed the final seven games of the 2015 season when the NFL issued a one-year suspension, which has since become indefinite. Smith checked into a rehab facility in 2016, after denying that he was smoking marijuana in a video posted to Periscope, and the league ruled against lifting his suspension when he applied for reinstatement later in the year. In February 2017, Smith was the subject of a domestic-violence investigation, and the next month saw him detained by police after he was the passenger in a vehicle that struck a squad car. The Raiders could not be reached by The Post for immediate comment. Read more from The Post: Jerry Jones has never seen such ‘punishment’ as Ezekiel Elliott took ‘for what he did’ sports  early-lead Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Break newsletter National sports news, in your inbox daily. Please provide a valid email address. A one-handed linebacker with blazing speed has the NFL combine buzzing At the NFL combine, three of the top four QB prospects will participate in throwing drills Kobe Bryant picks up Oscar for ‘Dear Basketball’ and drops ‘shut up and dribble’ reference