Joseph P. Kennedy used to tell his nine children that it doesn’t matter who you are. It only matters who people think you are. Not a bad motto for America’s most famous family. The battle to control the Kennedy image has waxed and waned for most of the past century, but the field has never fallen entirely silent. A case in point: “Chappaquiddick” opens in movie theaters April 6. The film offers a critical dramatization of a very low moment in the family’s history: the summer night in 1969 when Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, sole surviving son of the patriarch, drove his Oldsmobile off a bridge near Martha’s Vineyard, leading to the death of his passenger, Mary Jo Kopechne. Friends of the Kennedys have denounced the film as a mixture of fact and conjecture, but if some guesswork was necessary in re-creating the tragedy, Team Kennedy shares the blame. Nothing about Ted Kennedy’s behavior in the hours, days, years or decades after that terrible plunge evinced any interest in having the whole truth come out. opinions   Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false   Please provide a valid email address. That’s one of several ways Chappaquiddick — the wreck if not the film — continues to illuminate this strange and compelling family. The whole truth was never a priority for them, whether they were casting cold Rose Kennedy as the ultimate mother figure, or hiding the horrible results of Rosemary Kennedy’s ill-advised lobotomy, or covering up John F. Kennedy’s parlous physical condition and dangerous womanizing. Ted Kennedy’s shift into damage-control mode the moment he escaped from the submerged car is not a mystery to be unraveled; it was a characteristic family reflex. Much as the recklessness that caused the crash was both an echo and a portent of Kennedy carelessness past and future. And in this #MeToo moment, it’s worth noting who paid the highest price for this recklessness and dishonesty. Kopechne lost not only her life but also her reputation. She was one of a group of bright, able, college-educated young women who coordinated the delegate-counting operations for Sen. Robert F. Kennedy’s 1968 presidential campaign, so integral that she helped write his announcement speech. But because of the way Washington, and the Kennedys specifically, treated and talked about women, these promising young political operatives were dubbed “the Boiler Room Girls.” And when one of the “girls” ended up dead in Ted Kennedy’s car, she entered history not as a former teacher and civil rights worker, nor as the brains of a U.S. Senate campaign in Colorado, but simply as further female flotsam in the wake of the Kennedy men. Another of the campaign alumnae who gathered that night at the island, Boston attorney Nance Lyons, reflected on this injustice as part of a 2008 oral history. “Chappaquiddick changed my life,” she said. “The women who had had significant responsibility in the national campaign for Bobby Kennedy were portrayed as ‘girls’ of no significance — even as ‘party’ girls. It was humiliating — but no one bothered to set the record straight.” A different mode of being a Kennedy was possible, however, and it shines through every page of Eileen McNamara’s new biography of Eunice Kennedy Shriver, the family member who may, in time, prove to have been the most consequential one of all. In “Eunice: The Kennedy Who Changed the World,” McNamara traces the revolution Shriver wrought in the lives of people with disabilities. Skillfully wielding the familiar Kennedy tool kit — money, energy, celebrity and connections — the fifth child and third daughter of Joe and Rose Kennedy built a day camp in her backyard into the global movement called Special Olympics. Next March in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, more than 7,000 athletes are expected to compete before crowds numbering a half million, in the first Special Olympics ever held in the Middle East. Beyond that, the relentless Shriver catalyzed much of the public and private research over the past six decades into developmental disabilities and how to cope with them. In no small part through her efforts, the average life span of a child born with Down syndrome more than tripled, from 19 years to 60. She achieved all this in the context of a happy marriage to a devoted husband, with room enough to be an energetic (though sometimes distant and demanding) mother to her own large family. Shriver came to recognize that she, too, was a victim of the family’s misogyny. (“If that girl had been born with balls, she would have been one hell of a politician,” her father told a friend, obliviously.) And yet, as McNamara notes, there was no more formidable guardian of the Kennedy image than Shriver herself. “The transparency that history requires was of less import” to her “than the preservation of the myth,” McNamara writes. Taken together, the film and the book repudiate the patriarch’s skewed lesson. It mattered very much who Ted Kennedy was at Chappaquiddick, and will matter who Eunice Kennedy was next year in Abu Dhabi. Read more from David Von Drehle’s archive. Read more on this topic: E.J. Dionne Jr.: Joe Kennedy and Fall River values Larry J. Sabato: Five myths about John F. Kennedy George F. Will: John F. Kennedy the conservative Michael Beschloss: Five myths about Jackie Kennedy Norman Ornstein: How Ted Kennedy mastered a difficult Senate