Scott Stewart was about to accept an offer on a home. Then a pal sent him a Washington Post article in early February about a new listing on Q Street NW that changed everything. This particular home had something that dozens of other homes didn’t — a story of its own to tell. As a history buff with a particular fondness for the Kennedy clan, Stewart knew he couldn’t pass up the house where John F. Kennedy met Jacqueline Bouvier, his future wife, while attending a small garden party in May 1951 held by the home’s renters at the time, Charles and Martha Bartlett. Stewart, a managing partner of a senior living investment and development firm, placed an offer the same morning the home hit the market. “I like to think that the first couple … talked longingly about their first date and the house,” Stewart said. “It’s neat to be woven into that fabric.” [ The Georgetown house where JFK and Jackie first met is up for sale ] According to Stewart, the previous owners, who had owned the home since 1987, were looking for a buyer who would be a steward for the home’s antiquity. Stewart, a longtime admirer of the Kennedy family, certainly fits the bill. “My mom had a deep appreciation for the Kennedys and that certainly rubbed off on me,” Stewart said. “The ideals of Kennedy himself are ones that I stand for.” Stewart’s life has channeled his idol’s in many ways: Stewart  rented a property in the Brookline area of Massachusetts, where the former president was born; went to the same church a young JFK used to frequent; and attended Harvard, as Kennedy did. Stewart also owns a home on Martha’s Vineyard, “a place filled with the Kennedy mystique.” lifestyle  reliable-source       true Reliable Source newsletter Daily news on D.C. VIPs and the city’s hottest gossip Please provide a valid email address. While Stewart says these parallels are more coincidental than anything, he’s embracing the serendipitous nature that connects him to his new home. The empty-nester, who is downsizing from his McLean residence, already has plans for his new home. He’ll incorporate a mid-century motif for decor and embrace historic elements, including an old dial-up phone he plans to display by the entry. Stewart also hopes to raise the ceilings to modernize the place a bit — and to accommodate his 6-foot-4 frame. The focus of the home will stay on the patio area, where the fateful meeting between the future first couple occurred over cocktails. “I envision having a lot of Rob Roys and Old Fashioned’s out there,” Stewart said.