President Trump assured two Senate Republicans in a weekend conference call that he wants tens of billions of dollars to lower health-care premiums included in a must-pass spending bill. Trump made the commitment in an hour-long call Saturday with Sens. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Susan Collins (R-Maine), according to three people briefed on the conversation. Trump then called top GOP leaders in the House and the Senate to reiterate his support for the money — including payments to insurers under the Affordable Care Act that he had previously ended — the people said. They spoke on the condition of anonymity to detail the private conversations. However, despite the president’s support, it was highly uncertain Monday whether the health-care language would end up in the $1 trillion-plus spending bill that must pass by midnight Friday to stave off a government shutdown. The legislation was expected to be released Monday night, but the parties were still debating several issues, including the health-care language. Democrats were resisting the health measures because Republicans were seeking to include language limiting federal funding for abortions. [Collins takes huge leap of faith with tax bill. Critics say she’s getting played.] The possible health-care deal would fulfill commitments that Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) had previously made to Collins. Collins cited those commitments when she voted in favor of the tax bill last year. She and Alexander have been working for months to push legislation aimed at lowering premiums for people buying health-care coverage on the individual market under the ACA. Heading into a meeting with McConnell on Monday afternoon, Collins told reporters: “I’m still optimistic that it’s going to be included. It is the right thing to do. It would result in rate decreases that would provide substantial relief.” The parameters discussed in the Saturday call, which also included Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, would provide $30 billion over three years to allow states to set up high-risk pools for people with expensive health claims. It also would restart the “cost-sharing reduction” payments made to insurers under the ACA but ended by Trump in the fall. Those payments would be made retroactively and would continue for three years. House conservatives have opposed those measures, viewing them as propping up a law they have long opposed. And Democrats are balking at the proposal based on abortion-related language that would restrict how the funding could be spent by insurance companies. While federal funds cannot be spent on abortions, under the status quo — set out in the ACA and an executive order issued by President Barack Obama — insurers are free to offer plans that cover abortions and use segregated nonfederal funds to pay any abortion-related claims. Under the proposed Republican language, according to a GOP aide familiar with the plan, insurers could not use the stabilization funds to subsidize any plan that offers abortion coverage — whether or not the insurer uses the federal funds to pay for any specific claims. Republicans view the provision as adhering to the long-standing Hyde Amendment — a 40-year-old appropriations restriction that prevents federal funding for abortions — but Democrats view it as an impermissible expansion of abortion restrictions. The office of Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), who has partnered with Alexander on bipartisan health legislation, said in a statement Monday: “Sen. Murray is disappointed that Republicans are rallying behind a new partisan bill that includes a last-minute, harmful restriction on abortion coverage for private insurance companies instead of working with Democrats to wrap up what have been bipartisan efforts to reduce health care costs.” Congressional aides are still hopeful a deal on the overall spending bill will be struck Monday, allowing the legislation to pass the House on Wednesday and get through the Senate before Friday night’s deadline. Unresolved policy debates are likely to simply be left off the bill if a resolution is doubtful. House Republicans were set to be briefed on the bill’s contents Monday evening, with text to be released sometime afterward. On another front, the White House continues to explore whether a deal can be made on immigration — trading border-wall funding for a temporary extension of protections for those enrolled in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, or “dreamers.” Congressional appropriators have recommended only $1.6 billion in border security funding for a tightly restricted set of infrastructure improvements. Barring a deal, the Trump administration cannot move forward in any significant way with the wall, the president’s top immigration priority. The White House continued pushing through the weekend for more funding — $25 billion in exchange for extending DACA through September 2020 — according to two congressional aides familiar with the talks. But Democrats, who are seeking a permanent resolution to the issue, have rejected that offer. It is unclear whether the White House will negotiate further. Another issue at play is a fix for a provision in the tax law that inadvertently favored farmer-owned cooperatives over agriculture corporations, allowing a substantially larger write-off for sales to cooperatives. Farm-state lawmakers have been pushing for a solution to be included in the spending bill, but Democratic aides said Monday it probably would not be included.  Seung Min Kim contributed to this report.  Read more at PowerPost