BOISE, Idaho — The madness that has come to define March dropped two of the tournament’s best stories in the South Region, with a pair of Cinderellas advancing in No. 11 seed Loyola Chicago and No. 16 Maryland Baltimore County. The glass-slippered Ramblers have danced not once but twice, beating No. 6 seed Miami on Thursday and No. 3 seed Tennessee on Saturday. Results like that opened the door wide for one of the sport’s true blue bloods still around in the South — No. 5 seed Kentucky, which advanced to the Sweet 16 with a 95-75 win over Buffalo. Leading virtually from start to finish, the Wildcats (26-10) withstood every punch the Bulls (27-9) threw at them, firing back with a few of their own. “We ran into a buzz saw tonight,” Buffalo Coach Nate Oats said. Oats was right. If he wanted to be more specific, the buzz saw was named Shai Gilgeous-Alexander. In beating Arizona on Thursday night, Oats and his players were able to somewhat neutralize DeAndre Ayton, Arizona’s 7-foot center and the potential No. 1 pick in the 2018 NBA draft. But while it is possible to keep the ball out of the hands of even an immensely gifted big man such as Ayton, it is impossible to do the same to a gifted guard. And Gilgeous-Alexander — also a likely lottery pick in this year’s draft — wasn’t going to let Kentucky become the tournament’s next upset victim. In 39 near-perfect minutes, the 6-foot-6 Canadian point guard finished with 27 points on 10-for-12 shooting from the field to go with six rebounds, six assists and two steals, and he seemed to always be in position to make a play when the Wildcats needed one. “I told the guys, ‘There’s a reason this guy is projected to be a lottery pick,’ ” Oats said. “He’s the best point guard we’ve seen all year. “We didn’t really have an answer for him tonight.” Still, Buffalo had its chances. After trailing by 13 early in the second half, the Bulls went on a 9-0 run to pull within four on a pair of free throws by senior Wes Clark (26 points, six assists), and got to within five points of the Wildcats on three other occasions. But each time it looked like Buffalo was going to make this a one-possession game, Kentucky responded. The one time the Wildcats didn’t — when Kevin Knox missed on a drive to the hoop with 7:58 remaining and the Wildcats up 72-67 — Buffalo got a golden opportunity to finally close the gap when the Bulls pushed the ball upcourt on the break and found guard Jeremy Harris open on the wing. But after Buffalo made half its threes in its thrashing of Arizona, it went just 7 for 31 from behind the arc in this one. And Harris’s shot was one of the worst of those misses — barely hitting the front of the rim. Gilgeous-Alexander immediately came back with an and-one layup that pushed the lead back to eight. The play sparked a 23-6 Kentucky run to close the game, sending the Wildcats to the Sweet 16. “I told them at halftime [that] Buffalo is going to make a run,” Kentucky Coach John Calipari said. “They may tie it up. So what? Just keep playing. “They made their run and got it to six. They may have made it to four. I said, ‘This is what happens in [the tournament].’ You’ve got to keep playing.” The Wildcats advance to Atlanta to play the winner of Sunday’s game between Kansas State and UMBC on Thursday. More on the NCAA tournament: ‘What is UMBC? We’re for real.’ For one graduate, victory, validation and Natty Boh. There is a formula to beating Virginia, and UMBC followed it to perfection ‘I don’t have the answers’: For Virginia, collapse against UMBC is a statistical mystery Seth Davis apologizes after getting roasted by UMBC’s Twitter account Everyone celebrated UMBC’s historic victory … by posting photos of their retrievers March Madness live: Updates, TV schedule from the tournament 