It was a bustling Saturday morning at a Pennsylvania strip mall when Chelsea Guerra arrived in obsidian-colored heels, thigh-high stockings and nothing else. Michael Warnock had paid Guerra to photograph her in the nude on a public sidewalk after she answered a Craigslist solicitation before the April 8 incident, Warnock’s attorney, Ryan Tutera, told The Washington Post on Wednesday. But predictably, parents with children at the Monroeville shopping center were shocked by the spectacle, police arrived and the pair were arrested. Warnock, now 64, and Guerra, now 22, each pleaded guilty to misdemeanor disorderly conduct charges Monday, and were fined $300 as part of a plea agreement that dropped additional charges. Warnock had faced criminal solicitation and conspiracy charges, while Guerra had been charged with indecent exposure and disorderly conduct, the Associated Press reported. Both Warnock and Guerra could not be reached for comment. The Monroeville Police Department did not return a request for comment. Tutera said the agreement to hold the public photo shoot was a “less than advisable” decision done without a permit. There are clear boundaries for nudity in public. Tutera thinks his client was attempting to juxtapose mundane daily life with an out-of-place woman in the nude. “There is a certain shock value he was going for, and she was going for,” he said. County Judge Jill E. Rangos rebuked the stunt, comparing the incident to a streaker at a football game, KDKA reported. After the incident, Guerra told local station WTAE that she offers modeling services to help fund her education at Indiana University of Pennsylvania. Local reactions were mixed when KDKA returned to the scene after the incident. “I would have approached her and told her she needs to put clothes on or take it somewhere else,” said Kristy Champion, holding her young daughter. An unidentified man dissented in the same broadcast. “No, I would not have been offended,” he told the station. A reporter asked why. “Um, because it’s artistic,” he replied, rather unconvincingly. local  true-crime Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Must Reads newsletter 5 stories you can't afford to miss, every Saturday. Please provide a valid email address. Read more: Parents of Annie McCann, found dead in Baltimore of ‘Bactine poisoning,’ press Gov. Hogan to intervene She disappeared from her driveway while her children were home. Police found her body in the woods.