President Trump ended a nasty intraparty duel by persuading a Republican running a populist, unabashedly pro-Trump campaign to abandon his effort to unseat Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.) this year. Danny Tarkanian said in a statement Friday that Trump “and members of his political team” approached him Wednesday and asked him to end his Senate campaign and instead run for the House. “I am confident I would have won the U.S. Senate race and done a great job representing the people of Nevada in the Senate, but the President is adamant that a unified Republican ticket in Nevada is the best direction for the America First movement,” he said. “With President Trump’s full support and endorsement, I am filing to run again in [the 3rd Congressional District] with the firm belief that we will finish what we started in 2016 and win in 2018.” Tarkanian made the announcement Friday, shortly after Trump suggested on Twitter that he leave the Senate race: “It would be great for the Republican Party of Nevada, and it’s unity if good guy Danny Tarkanian would run for Congress and Dean Heller, who is doing a really good job, could run for Senate unopposed!” the president tweeted Friday afternoon. Moments later, Tarkanian’s wife tweeted Tarkanian would obey the president’s wishes: “He would’ve made an excellent Senator, but will also make a tremendous member of Congress … looking fwd to continuing the fight in helping implement America first policies!” Amy Tarkanian said from her verified account. Tarkanian, the son of legendary college basketball coach Jerry Tarkanian, announced his primary challenge to Heller last August, after Heller flipped and flopped on whether to support the Republican health-care overhaul backed by Trump. “We’re never going to make America great again unless we have senators in office supporting President Trump,” Tarkanian said on Fox News Channel in announcing his run. The primary had emerged as an additional hurdle for Heller, who already faced a tough general election in a state that voted for Hillary Clinton over Trump in 2016. Tarkanian’s challenge has been seen as part of an anti-establishment tide within the Republican Party, one that has largely been identified with former Trump strategist Stephen K. Bannon but has receded somewhat since Bannon left the White House in January. Even so, a fierce primary could have forced Heller to tack rightward in his campaign, making his general election prospects even dicier. The winner of the Republican primary is likely to face Rep. Jacky Rosen, a freshman congresswoman who has the backing of Nevada’s Democratic establishment. Heller’s reelection is crucial to Republicans’ effort to preserve and possibly expand their two-seat Senate majority in the 2018 midterms. Democrats are generally on defense, with 10 of the party’s incumbents seeking reelection in states Trump won in 2017. Nevada is the only state with a Republican incumbent seeking reelection this year in a state Clinton won. Tarkanian previously ran against Rosen, and lost, in the 3rd district in 2016. He also ran unsuccessfully in Nevada’s 4th district in 2012; for the U.S. Senate seat held by Harry M. Reid (D) in 2010; for Nevada secretary of state in 2006; and for the Nevada state Senate in 2004. powerpost  powerpost     false endOfArticle true The Energy 202 newsletter Your daily guide to the energy and environment debate. Please provide a valid email address. In his statement Friday, Tarkanian said dropping out of the Senate race “was not something I ever considered.” He added that “public service is doing what is in the best interest of the people you represent, not yourself politically.” “I believe with every ounce of my body that the future of our country, and a better life for our children, requires the implementation of the America First agenda,” he said. Friday is Nevada’s candidate filing deadline for this year’s congressional elections.