INDIANAPOLIS — Baker Mayfield, Oklahoma’s controversial, Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback, isn’t exactly taking a low-key approach at this NFL scouting combine. From declaring himself the one quarterback capable of turning around the Cleveland Browns, to calling himself “by far” the most accurate passer in this draft class, to saying he’s not prepared to settle for a backup job on any team as a rookie, Mayfield announced his presence loudly Friday. “Until you sit down and talk to me directly, you might have an image portrayed in stories and headlines,” Mayfield said. “But I love the game. I’m up front and honest. I let them know exactly what I’m about. I think that’s important that what you see is what you get. I’ve always been brutally honest. Some people don’t like that because it’s rare nowadays. But I go into these meetings [with NFL teams] and I’m just myself.” [The NFL’s quarterback market is bursting with options for a change] Mayfield is the most polarizing figure in the celebrated draft class of quarterbacks that also includes USC’s Sam Darnold, UCLA’s Josh Rosen, Louisville’s Lamar Jackson and Wyoming’s Josh Allen. There are questions about his size and his behavior on and off the field. But there is no questioning his production as a college player. “There’s a line to be drawn between getting to unprofessional,” he said. “But the great ones have a competitive edge. You look at Tom Brady. You look at [Aaron] Rodgers. You look at Philip Rivers, too. Those guys, they have that edge. So, yeah, there’s a line to be drawn and I’ve had my lessons that I had to go through the hard way, obviously. You guys know that. So, yeah, there’s a line to be drawn and I know that.” Mayfield said he welcomes questions from teams during the interview process. Those undoubtedly will include inquiries about an arrest in Arkansas on charges that included public intoxication and disorderly conduct, about planting the Oklahoma flag at midfield at Ohio State, about the vulgar gesture he directed toward the Kansas sideline during a game that began with Jayhawks players refusing to shake his hand at midfield. “They’re investing a lot of money in these guys they’re drafting,” Mayfield said. “So they can ask any question. This whole process is about finding out what’s wrong with you, pointing out flaws and things, seeing if they can look past them, seeing if they can work with it. Any question they ask is fair game.” Mayfield said Friday that he “can make any throw.” He said he is “the most accurate quarterback in this draft, by far.” He said his main priority at the combine is showing that he’s ready “from Day 1 to be a franchise guy.” The Browns possess the draft’s first and fourth overall choices and their front office is said to like Mayfield. Would Mayfield find it daunting to attempt the task of being the on-field savior of a team coming off a winless season? Apparently not. “That’d be a chance to play football,” he said. “I’d love that. But first things first. They’d get a winner. I think if anybody is gonna turn that franchise around, it’d be me that would be able to put it in the right direction. They’re close. They’ve been very close. They have the right pieces.” It would be a far different situation with the New York Giants, who possess the No. 2 overall selection. The rookie quarterback who lands with the Giants probably will have to wait his turn, beginning his career as a backup to Eli Manning. “Whatever team I go to, I’m not gonna settle for a backup job,” Mayfield said. “I’ve never been like that and I never will. I’m gonna push that person in front of me. When it comes down to it, the best man’s gonna win. And I know that. But everybody has a role on the team. If you’re not improving it and pushing those guys around you to be better, then you’re not doing it right.” It will be interesting to see how Mayfield’s approach goes over in an NFL locker room filled with older players. “I don’t think I’m cocky,” he said. “It’s not cocky. It’s just confident. Everybody has earned their way into that locker room. I get it that those guys are trying to feed their families. But I’m not gonna go in there and act like I have it all figured out. I’m always trying to improve. I never have once said, ‘Oh, I’ve made it.’ I’ve always been the first one to say that it was my mistake. Let me get better.” Read more on the NFL: As NFL debate rages about his position, Lamar Jackson says ‘I’m strictly a QB’ sports  sports Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. NFL combine: Broncos may go ‘all-in’ on Cousins; Bennett, Landry on trade block? Running backs are coveted once more and Saquon Barkley’s stock is soaring At long last, we’re at the ‘no doubt’ stage of Andrew Luck’s recovery