CHARLOTTE — About 2,000 people filled a massive white tent on Friday for a private funeral service at the Billy Graham Library to honor the iconic evangelist who preached to millions across the globe. President Trump and Vice President Pence attended the funeral, though Trump is not expected to speak, according to Graham’s spokesman, Mark DeMoss. Graham, who died Feb. 21 at age 99, was honored this week in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda. During the second half of the 20th century, Billy Graham served as the key leader of evangelicalism, which has become the largest religious persuasion in the United States today. A lifelong registered Democrat, he was a friend and counselor to several presidents. Graham met Trump at a 95th birthday party for the spiritual leader organized by his son Franklin Graham who has fallen in his father’s footsteps and led the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association in recent years as his father aged. [ Billy Graham is the first religious leader to lie in honor at the U.S. Capitol. Some say he should be the last. ] During Friday’s service, Franklin Graham noted Trump and Pence’s presence, but he did not touch on politics in his keynote address. Instead he channeled the gospel message that his father preached for so many years, that people have sinned and need to repent and turn to Jesus as their savior. On a sunny but windy day here, the tent creaked and the wind howled as Franklin Graham spoke of his father’s belief in the “infallible” Bible. Graham believed in heaven and hell, that hell is reserved for the wicked, his son said. “The world with all its political correctness would like you to believe there are many roads to God,” he said. “It’s just not true.” Members of Graham’s family had dinner with Trump and Pence in the White House on Wednesday, where Trump asked questions about the late evangelist, Franklin Graham said in an interview on Thursday. Franklin Graham, 65, said on Thursday that there are no plans to set up any new foundation or organization in honor of his father. He said leaders in the evangelistic association are considering turning his father’s home in Montreat, N.C., into a retreat center for business leaders. Franklin Graham’s four siblings also gave brief remarks. His sister, Ruth Graham, spoke of dreading going to her father’s home after she ran away from her second husband because she was afraid of him. “You don’t want to embarrass your father,” she said. “You really don’t want to embarrass Billy Graham.” She said her father was waiting for her when she arrived home. “He wrapped his arms around me and said ‘welcome home.’” There was no blame, just unconditional love, she said Friday’s funeral took place under a 28,000-square-foot tent, a throwback to Graham’s 1949 crusade in Los Angeles that lasted eight weeks under a tent. That crusade sparked Graham’s explosion in popularity. On Friday morning, the funeral was filled with a “who’s who” of white evangelicalism, with entertainers Kathie Lee Gifford and Steven Curtis Chapman, pastors Rick Warren and Joel Osteen, popular speakers Ravi Zacharias and Beth Moore and many more. Graham’s pine plywood casket with a small cross at the top was made by inmates at the Louisiana State Penitentiary, where he once preached. Graham’s gravemarker, made of North Carolina stone, will include the phrase, “Preacher of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.” [ Protestantism was born in Germany, but it was Billy Graham who brought evangelicalism there ] Former presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, who have both cited Graham as important in their spiritual lives, visited Charlotte earlier this week to pay their respects. In 2007, Clinton and former Presidents Jimmy Carter and George H.W. Bush attended the library’s dedication ceremony. Earlier this week, thousands lined up to see Graham’s casket, and Trump and other political leaders spoke at a memorial service for him. For Graham’s son Franklin, the Rotunda honoring of his father — a first for a religious leader — harks back to an earlier era in America. “We need to put God back in government,” he said on Thursday. “We need God back into our schools. We need God back into our everyday lives. If we do that, we could see a spiritual healing in our country.” Most of Friday’s service was planned about a decade ago by Graham and his friend Cliff Barrows, who died in 2016. More than 100 international delegates representing Russian Orthodox, Greek Orthodox, Catholic and evangelical traditions are expected to attend. Michael W. Smith and the Gaither band, popular musicians among evangelicals, will lead some of Graham’s favorite hymns, including “Because He Lives.” Following the service, Graham will be buried in a memorial garden at the library next to his wife, Ruth, during a smaller service expected to include about 200 family members. Cardinal Timothy Dolan, archbishop of New York, said Graham epitomized “what’s best in American Christianity.” He said Graham continued America’s historical tradition of “spiritual renewal and social service.” “He’s particularly refreshing today when religion is often abused and perverted for the cause of hatred and violence,” Dolan said. “He would always use it as an occasion of harmony, amity and respect.” Graham mentored pastors like Rick Warren, who pastors a megachurch in Southern California. “Billy was the greatest Christian of the 20th century, in my opinion,” Warren said. The two men first met at a crusade in Oakland, Calif., when Warren was 20 years old. “The greatest thing [about him was,] a 60 year ministry and no scandal,” Warren said. Graham maintained a policy called the “Billy Graham rule” that he would not travel or be alone with a woman who wasn’t his wife, a rule Pence has reportedly followed himself. Television host Kathie Lee Gifford, who has spoken openly about how Graham “introduced me to the person of Jesus,” said his evangelism continues through people like her. “It’s not about religion, it’s about relationship,” Gifford said. “I’m not a big fan of religion. I’ve seen religion do an awful lot of evil in this world. But Jesus didn’t. And Jesus did nothing but love people and teach them that God loved them just as they were and had a hope and a plan for them and a future.” During his lifetime, Graham regularly showed up on polls of “most admired” people, but he had his critics on both the right and the left. Some fundamentalist Christians felt he didn’t draw enough theological boundaries, and some theologians felt the gospel he preached was too simplistic. “I think his gospel should be simplistic because the gospel is simple,” said Houston megachurch pastor Joel Osteen, who said he sometimes gets criticized for not having gone to seminary. No one person will be able to fill Graham’s shoes, Osteen said as he stood in line for Graham’s funeral service. Instead, thousands of pastors like Osteen are carrying on Graham’s evangelism since he paved the way for them on the airwaves. Steven Curtis Chapman, a popular Christian musician who recalled playing at Graham’s rallies with a “long, flowing mullet,” said Graham gave Christian music a platform and made it legitimate. “He recognized that to reach people where they are, he would embrace even a kid with a mullet,” he said. Graham said later in his life that he should have steered clear of politics. After tapes came out in 2002 revealing he and President Richard Nixon had shared anti-Semitic views, Graham admitted to weeping and throwing up. [ Would Billy Graham be disgusted by evangelicals today? ] Some evangelical observers have openly wondered whether Franklin Graham’s close association with Trump would meet the approval of his father. While Franklin Graham did not formally endorse Trump, he has supported most of his policies. Franklin Graham said his father voted in the last election, but he declined to say whom he voted for, saying “it doesn’t matter” because the election is over and America voted for Trump. “All of us need to try to support Trump the best we can in the areas we can,” Franklin Graham said. “There’s nothing wrong with us supporting candidates that support religious freedom [and] that support values that we hold very dear,” he said. Franklin Graham said his father will be known for supporting racial integration and his fierce anti-Communist activism. During his lifetime, Graham also drew attention to AIDS, hunger, poverty and environmental threats. Graham was famous for giving a platform to many other leaders, including his controversial decision to invite Martin Luther King Jr. on his crusade stage at a New York City rally in 1957. “From that point on, he opened the door to sharing the Gospel and sharing the platform beyond just his white evangelical context,” said A.R. Bernard, a black pastor of a megachurch in New York City. “He was America’s pastor to white Christians predominantly, but he was also America’s pastor in that he gave an example to persons of color and leaders of color, to look beyond the divisive constructs that existed in our society.” Could Graham have done more for the civil rights cause? Bernard said “he did what he could considering the times that he was in.” If Graham were alive today, Franklin Graham said, he would be speaking out against same-sex marriage and would say that America’s gun issues are a problem of “the human heart.” [ With AR-15s in their arms, couples exchange vows in pro-gun church ] In his later years, Graham distanced himself from the more politically driven Christian Right. As some evangelical leaders grew increasingly partisan, Graham sought to soften boundaries and helped to build organizations that would focus on evangelism broadly. But some worry that American evangelicalism has drifted from the direction Graham would have wanted. Among them is his brother-in-law, Leighton Ford, 86, who preached with Graham for 30 years. “The word evangelical refers to a certain brand of politics,” he said while leaning back in a leather chair in his home. “Now I have to say, ‘Am I an evangelical?’ Yes, but I have to define it.” Ford’s wife, Jean — Graham’s only surviving sister, at 85 years old — gave brief remarks at the funeral. While Graham urged evangelicals to remain civically engaged, unlike some Christians who preferred to stay completely out of politics, Ford said he thinks Graham would urge younger evangelicals to stay out of partisan politics. “I remember him saying he and [his wife] Ruth were at dinner with [Lyndon B.] Johnson and Johnson asked for his advice and Ruth kicked him under the table,” Ford said. “Ruth tried to keep him restrained even though she had her own opinions.” local  acts-of-faith Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Acts of Faith newsletter Conversations about faith and values. Please provide a valid email address. The funeral concludes more than a week of tributes that included crowds gathering by the road as his body was transferred from Asheville, N.C., to his childhood home in Charlotte. On Thursday, several of Graham’s great-grandchildren ran around a hotel lobby here before the family members began to gather for a dinner. Several of Graham’s children and grandchildren have created their own ministries, including Boz Tchividjian, who founded GRACE, an organization that works to investigate and prevent child abuse in churches and ministries. As he sat next to his sister Jerushah Armfield in the hotel lobby, they agreed that their grandfather would likely be uncomfortable with “the fuss” being made over his death this week. “I don’t know that he cared about what people thought of him, but he cared about what you thought of Jesus,” Armfield said.