PITTSBURGH — Duke’s Grayson Allen could not escape the boos, not even in a neutral arena that was mostly full with Blue Devils fans. They screamed their lungs out during player introductions before Thursday’s first-round NCAA tournament East Region game against 15th-seeded Iona, but those cheers were muffled with boos. The heckling continued after tip-off. “Hey Grayson, I have my eyes on you!” one Iona fan yelled as the Blue Devils guard prepped for an inbounds pass. “Grayson Allen! You got knocked down!” another bellowed after a particularly physical defensive possession, but Allen just wiped off his white Blue Devils jersey and knocked down his fourth three-pointer in second-seeded Duke’s 89-76 win. There were five potential lottery picks scheduled to play at PPG Paints Arena on Thursday, all of whom have a fair argument as the best prospect at this site. But there’s no argument about the most divisive player on the floor. “It’s always something you have to manage, whether you’re the leader or not. For me, it’s just part of the game now,” Allen said. [March Madness Day One: Schedule, TV info and latest updates] Allen is just a week removed from adding another chapter to his legacy as one of the most hated players in college basketball history after picking up a flagrant foul for hip-checking a North Carolina player in the ACC tournament. But aside from Allen’s stone face Thursday as he heard the insults hurled at him, he also looked the part of a captain — a title he once had stripped from him for tripping opponents — who is going to need to steer the young Blue Devils in their pursuit of a sixth national championship. Duke is the second-youngest team in the country behind only Kentucky and it ranked 339th out of 351 Division I teams in minutes continuity, per KenPom.com — and Allen is the only one of four starters who had any tournament experience. Iona had hoped to do what Lehigh did as a No. 15 seed against second-seeded Duke in 2012, or what No. 14 Mercer did against the third-seeded Blue Devils in 2014, but this rendition never looked complacent Thursday despite its youth. And while he hasn’t played on a team as talented as this one-and-done laden group in Durham — big man Marvin Bagley III continued to look like the potential first overall pick in June’s NBA draft with 22 points and seven rebounds against Iona while point guard Trevon Duval continued to look like a surefire lottery pick with 19 points and eight assists — Allen felt responsible for helping manage their emotions before the game. “I’m really the only one with [tournament] game experience, so I have to prepare these guys the best I can,” Allen said. [Brewer: Virginia can’t let one broken wrist stop it from knocking down the door] He told them to not pay attention to other games on their phones, something that he had learned once could be a major distraction while preparing to play. Once they started playing, he could tell Duval was nervous but he kept swinging the ball around the perimeter; he wanted Bagley to feel like this was just another game, too, so he kept feeding the post. “He treated it like it was a normal game, and once we got out there past the first couple minutes, it felt like that too,” Duval said. Allen finished with 16 points and nine assists; five of the latter came before halftime, when Allen also beat the buzzer with a wide-open three-pointer that felt like a reward for his restraint. Maybe his most important contribution was spearheading the top of Duke’s changing zone defenses, which are a work in progress. Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski committed more to the zone midseason, and on Thursday he toggled between 2-3, 1-3-1 and even 3-2 zone looks at different points of the game. Allen seemed to set the tone by harassing Iona’s guards in a full-court press to begin the games, and one of his more emotional moments came in the second half, when he took an offensive foul and slapped the ball out of an opponents’ hands. Afterward, he talked about the importance of guard play in March, about how tough the veteran guards of their next opponent, seventh-seeded Rhode Island, are. In an overtime win over Oklahoma earlier in the day, the Rams’ hardened small-ball lineup harassed Oklahoma freshman guard Trae Young, who arrived in Pittsburgh as one of four finalists to win the Naismith Award, given to the country’s top player. Allen isn’t on that list. A matchup against Young and the Sooners would’ve been enticing, but either way, Allen expects jeers. He’s the most hated player in America, and perhaps the most important to his young team’s chances at winning a national championship. “It would be really surprising to me if I didn’t get booed as I walked out onto the court,” Allen said. “I’ve kind of just accepted it. I feed off of it. I’m not only used to it, but I own it now.” More NCAA tournament coverage: Feinstein: Young takes a final bow on a stage Oklahoma didn’t deserve Gonzaga’s experience shows in victory over UNC Greensboro Blackistone: When NCAA teams cheat, black assistant coaches wear the black hat Round-by-round odds, projections for every team in the bracket sports  sports Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Daily newsletter Sports news with a focus on D.C. area teams. Please provide a valid email address. One crying moment: 15 of the toughest defeats in NCAA tournament history Brewer: March Madness is the NCAA’s greatest hypocrisy and its best hope of salvation Rep your team, troll your rivals: Dancing mascot GIFs for every NCAA tournament team