 * Winter storm warning 2 a.m. to 8 p.m. Wednesday for entire region | School closings * 8:10 a.m. update: A solid area of snow has developed across the DMV with snow starting to accumulate nicely. As the sun rises higher in the sky, the snow may tend to melt on road surfaces when falling lightly. But during moderate to heavy bursts, even treated roads may become snow covered, and expect lowered visibility as well. Based on radar and short-term modeling, we think the morning hours through around 1 p.m., perhaps a bit later north of the Beltway, are probably our best window for accumulating snow, with snow continuing but more lightly thereafter.  7:30 a.m. update: Snow now picking up nicely across the area, starting to cover grassy areas, sidewalks, and untreated road surfaces. Radar and short-term models suggest that areas of light to moderate snow will continue through much of the day. So while we don’t see the “boom” scenario playing out, we do think there’s a decent chance we’ll see accumulations near or into at least the lower end of our most likely amounts in the forecast map down below.    6:45 a.m. update: Radar has started to fill in with a mixture of sleet and snow across the area. We think based on the latest information that we may be looking at the lower end of our forecast map below, but need to see how things play out with radar and temperatures over the next few hours. See tweet below for some commentary on the timing of things thus far…  5:45 a.m. update: Precipitation arriving on schedule, likely in the form of a sleet-snow mix, as it moves in generally from south-southwest to north-northeast over the next 30-45 minutes. Temperatures are right around 29-32 across the area, so beware of slick spots if you must be out early this morning, especially on untreated roads and sidewalks. TODAY’S DAILY DIGIT A somewhat subjective rating of the day’s weather, on a scale of 0 to 10. 7/10: It was a long wait, but finally some significant snow for the kids and snow lovers out there! A few points off for spoiling our start to spring, though. EXPRESS FORECAST Today: Wintry mix changing to all snow. Highs: Low 30s. Tonight: Snow tapers early. Lows: Upper 20s to low 30s. Tomorrow: Partly sunny, cold, gusty wind. Highs: Upper 30s to low 40s. View the current weather at the Washington Post headquarters. FORECAST IN DETAIL After waiting all winter, it’s our first full day of spring that finally brings a significant snowfall — possibly the biggest of what’s been an anemic season for snow. Accumulating snow should come to an end by this evening. But we remain quite chilly through the weekend with, believe it or not, a chance of light snow late Saturday into Sunday. Listen to the latest forecast:  Get our daily forecasts on your Amazon Alexa device. Click here to find out how. Today (Wednesday): A wintry mix changes to all snow from west to east across the area around 5-8 a.m. And then the snow accumulates into and through the afternoon, anywhere from 2 to 8 inches across the D.C.-Baltimore area as shown in our forecast map below. More snow will stick to the grass than pavement, thanks to the high March sun angle. But with temperatures hovering right near the freezing mark, the snow should manage to stick to many road surfaces, especially during heavier bursts. The breeze is chilly and around 10-15 mph from the north.  Confidence: Medium-High  Tonight: The snow should taper from west to east by around 5-8 p.m., though it may continue lightly later into the evening, but with little additional accumulation. Winds remain breezy, from the northwest around 10-20 mph, as lows bottom in the upper 20s to low 30s. Confidence: Medium Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest updates. For related traffic news, check out Gridlock. Keep reading for the forecast through the weekend… Tomorrow (Thursday): Partly sunny skies and temperatures rising above freezing get the melting process going, but it doesn’t feel anything like spring. Highs reach only the upper 30s to low 40s, with winds gusting from the northwest near 35 mph. Confidence: Medium-High Tomorrow night: Winds diminish, although we should maintain a breeze from the northwest around 10-15 mph. Otherwise skies turn mostly clear, with chilly lows down to the mid-20s to low 30s. Confidence: High A LOOK AHEAD Friday looks only slightly warmer, with highs in the low to mid-40s under partly cloudy skies, and still a noticeable breeze from the northwest. Could see a flurry or snow shower as well. Friday night lows drop back to the mid-20s to near 30. Saturday may start on the sunny side but should see increasing clouds as highs stall in the 40s again. Confidence: Medium-High Another system may try to bring some light snow Saturday evening into Sunday, although some models keep the precipitation mainly south of the D.C. area. This system should be weaker than today’s but bears watching. Saturday night lows dip to the upper 20s to low 30s, with continued chilly Sunday highs in the upper 30s to mid-40s. Confidence: Low SNOW POTENTIAL INDEX A daily assessment of the potential for at least one inch of snow in the next week, on a 0-10 scale. 9.5/10 (↑): Wednesday snow prospects push the SPI sky high! (There is even a chance of light snow this weekend, too.)