* High wind warning until 6 a.m. Saturday * Power outage tracker |  Weather wreaking havoc locally | Wind updates from the day 10:45 p.m. update: The wind is still roaring, just with a little less punch than earlier. Wind gusts have largely dipped to the upper 30s to around 50 mph range. Hefty, but less apt to knock giant trees over than the stuff a few hours back. With this easing, we’ve seen power outages come down about 100,000 from maximum, now back below 500,000 late this evening.   Winds could settle a bit more before they stabilize for the night. Once the sun is up, they’ll increase again somewhat. Gusts near 50 mph will be possible again tomorrow. 8:10 p.m. update: Winds have waned slightly this evening. Over at Dulles, we’ve now had a few hours without gusts over 50 mph, after a dozen hours with winds at least that high. National Airport was still gusting to 51 mph last hour, which was one of the high readings locally. We should still lose a bit more of the wind speed over the next several hours before they stabilize a bit late night and toward dawn.  The High Wind Warning has been lowered to a wind advisory to our west and southwest. It wouldn’t be totally surprising if that happened here as well before it ends, although they may just let it run at out at this point. Plenty of damage has already been done. From 5:30 p.m… It’s been a rough one across the area. A day that will be remembered. With a significant number of wind gusts in the 60 to 70 mph range, and even a few above that, we can expect cleanup to go on for some time when it finally ends. While the High Wind Warning continues until early tomorrow and winds will be very slow to weaken, we have made it past the worst. Listen to the latest forecast:  Get our daily forecasts on your Amazon Alexa device. Click here to find out how. Through tonight: We’ll see winds lose about 5 to 10 mph off their general intensity as we get into the night. This still means widespread sustained winds near 30 or 35 mph well into the night, and the likelihood of gusts above 50 to 55 mph continuing, as well. It should be enough to begin to end the damaging part of this event, but some additional issues (i.e. falling trees and new power outages) will probably pop up, hopefully in decreasing fashion over time. We might briefly get winds down to about 25 to 30 mph sustained near sunrise, but they’ll come back up again a bit after that. Lows are in the upper 20s to mid-30s, with colder wind chills. View the current weather conditions at The Washington Post. Tomorrow (Saturday): The offshore storm is huge, and it’s not going anywhere too fast at the moment, so winds persist. As noted, they may increase a bit again as the sun rises and helps mix the atmosphere up. Sustained levels out of the northwest are between 25 and 35 mph most of the day, which means gusts could approach and surpass 50 mph. The good news is we should see more sun than once planned, which helps highs rise to about 50 or a little higher. Sunday: Skies remain mostly clear into and through Sunday. Winds are another notch lower but still pretty feisty. We’re talking 15 to 20 mph, with gusts to about 35 or 40 mph. High temperature range from near 50 to the mid-50s. See Camden Walker’s forecast through the weekend. And if you haven’t already, join us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter and Instagram. For related traffic news, check out Dr. Gridlock. Want our 5 a.m. forecast delivered to your email in-box? Subscribe here. Peak gusts from this wind storm (through early evening) Dahlgren, Va. — 75 Dulles Airport, Va. — 71 Ballenger Creek, Md. — 69 Gaithersburg, Md. — 69 Patuxent River, Md. — 68 Upper Marlboro, Md. — 67 Downtown Washington, D.C. (near Union Station) — 66 Catholic University, D.C. — 66 Sabillasville, Md. — 64 Flint, Md. — 62 Andrews AFB, Md — 62 Washington National, Va. — 62 BWI Airport — 61 Leesburg, Va. — 61 Winchester, Va. — 61 Chaptico, Md. — 60 Manassas, Va. — 60 U.S. Capitol, D.C. — 58  Link: More complete list