It’s Tuesday, a weekday, which means it’s time for another installment of #NeverFly. If you’re wondering whether this is the one where a man kept punching his fellow passengers, to the point where the plane couldn’t take off, it is not. Nor is it the story of a nor’easter-diverted flight that became a nightmare nine-hour bus trip — and left two travelers hospitalized. No. This incident involves a woman who attempted, among other things, to open a cabin door in midair Monday on a flight from San Francisco to Boise, Idaho. Her bizarre outburst prompted other passengers on SkyWest Airlines Flight 5449 to tackle her and keep her restrained as she ranted breathlessly, “I am God! I am God! I am God!” “She wasn’t acting right, or normal, from the very beginning” of the flight, Scott T. Smith, who was seated in the row behind the woman, told the Idaho Statesman. Smith said he put on noise-canceling headphones and tried to brush off the odd behavior by attributing it to a possible fear of flying. At some point in the middle of the flight, however, the woman suddenly rushed the cabin door at the front of the plane, passenger Danny Torres told KTVB News. “She got up from her seat, started screaming, ran straight to the door and tried opening it,” Torres told the news station. “The pilot came on the loudspeaker and told us to ‘stop her at all costs’ from opening up the door.” [ ‘Come on, hit me!’ American Airlines grounds flight attendant after video shows confrontation. ] In one cellphone video of the incident, the woman is flailing as two men hold her down in the aisle and use zip ties to bind her arms and legs. In another video, taken from what appears to be farther back after the plane had landed, the woman is still lying in the aisle as two police officers retrieve her. About a half-dozen people can be seen filming the incident on their cellphones. SkyWest Airlines confirmed the incident but did not release the woman’s name. “SkyWest flight 5449, operating as United Express from San Francisco to Boise, landed safely in Boise after reports of a customer attempting to open the aircraft door,” SkyWest spokeswoman Marissa Snow said in a statement. “The customer was restrained, and law enforcement officials met the flight at the gate, where all passengers safely deplaned. The unruly customer was held for questioning by law enforcement.” Boise police identified the passenger only as a woman from Boise. She was placed in the custody of the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, while the Ada County prosecutor’s office was reviewing possible charges, police said. The FBI is also investigating, police said. Read more: How a flight diverted by the nor’easter became a 9-hour bus ride — and left two travelers hospitalized A man tried to board a flight wearing everything he packed. British Airways gave him the boot. Woman gives birth on Spirit Airlines flight, does not incur extra fees