Jodie Meeks was evaluating his season, almost 70 games that have hovered around the median, and recalling how he couldn’t make a three-pointer against the Boston Celtics when Washington Wizards player development coach David Adkins interrupted. Adkins, leaving the practice court and never breaking stride, pointed and declared: “Big Shot Meeks!” Meeks grinned, acknowledging the nickname that has followed him since Wednesday night when he hit a corner three-pointer with 2.0 seconds remaining. The perfect jumper completed the Wizards’ 20-point comeback then forced the first of two overtimes, setting up a 125-124 win against the Celtics. “Big Shot Meeks,” assistant coach Mike Terpstra echoed when he noticed Meeks hanging around the hallways. In a season that Meeks has described as “average” — he was brought in to be Bradley Beal’s backup as well as the bench unit’s three-point threat, but has registered numbers far below his career averages — the shot in Boston could go a long way in changing his identity around Capital One Arena. “I didn’t think I needed a confidence booster but it’s always nice to see a shot go in, especially a big shot like that for the team to go into overtime and win in two overtimes later,” Meeks said. “I always have confidence but it was good for Coach to put me into that situation and to have confidence in me to knock it down.” For Meeks to have been on the floor with the game at hand was astonishing. Even for him, simply because Meeks had thought his rotation for the night had concluded with 6:25 left in the fourth quarter. During this season, Meeks has averaged 15 minutes per game. Such a limited role could not have been what he or the Wizards envisioned last summer when they agreed on a two-year deal worth $7 million. Ahead of the NBA trade deadline, word from Meeks’s camp spread that he would welcome a trade if one was possible.  There were no takers. Meeks stayed on the roster and closed February by receiving the same sporadic minutes even though John Wall was sidelined and Beal had to carry a heavier load (since Jan. 27, Beal leads the NBA in minutes played). However during March, Meeks has hit a rhythm. He’s played more than 20 minutes in three games, scored a season-high 23 points against the Miami Heat and shot 43.9 percent from three-point range. “I think Coach is doing a great job distributing those minutes to everyone,” Meeks said of Scott Brooks “Obviously, it’s tough for him in the shooting guard role because Brad’s an all-star. No doubt about that. He’s playing really well this year. I’m happy to be in the position I’m in.” On Wednesday night when the Wizards trailed 106-103 with five seconds to play, Brooks called timeout and inserted Meeks, who had missed his three previous looks from beyond the arc. “When he put me in, I was kinda like ‘Whoop! Time to go in!’ ” Meeks said. “I guess it was kind of surprising but at the same time, it’s not hard to get my mind right.” Once back on the court, Meeks latched himself to the corner spot in front of the Celtics’ bench; all but forgotten by the five defenders on the floor. Then, Otto Porter Jr. found him open and ready for the game-tying shot. A nickname was born, but the new moniker did not establish a belief in Meeks. That feeling was already there. “Jodie’s always confident. I’ll never question that,” Beal said. “He shoots shots that he believes are going to go in and he believes he can make. We just need for him to continue to shoot the ball, that’s why he’s here.” With the playoffs soon approaching, Meeks believes there will be more big shots to come. “I know I can play better. It’s all about getting used to the system, the situation but we’re winning,” Meeks said. “That’s the reason I came here because I wanted to be on a winning team and I wanted to contribute and both of those things are happening. My play will pick up over time, I’m not even worried about that. I always have confidence in the amount of work I put in before the season, during the season. The cream always rises to the top, the old saying says, and I feel like that’s going to happen.” More Wizards and NBA coverage: Kevin Durant out at least two weeks with rib cartilage fracture Wizards sign Sessions for rest of season. What does it mean for Wall’s return? Brooks: ‘You know what, it’s time’ for Wizards to start playing like the playoffs are coming