The latest data is in, and one thing is clear: Many in the Northeast are in for a massive winter storm. The ingredients are in place for a significant winter storm to develop off the Atlantic coast Wednesday morning. It then moves northeastward through the afternoon and night, lashing the Interstate 95 corridor with snow and wind, making travel treacherous. The models have been struggling to capture just how close this storm will track to the coast. If it moves farther inland, then more folks will be on the rainy side east of the center. On the left-hand side of the storm, however, cold air and plentiful moisture will combine to drop more than a foot of snow in some areas. Winter storm warnings stretch from Philadelphia north to the Canadian border, covering more than 36 million people. Light snow will begin in far northeast Maryland and southern New Jersey and expand north through the Tri-State area late Wednesday morning. By the evening commute, it will be very heavy. Areas north of Baltimore to Philadelphia will be only briefly affected by this storm before it heads north, so snow totals in that region should not exceed 4 to 6 inches. New York City looks as though it will take a harder hit from this storm, where snowfall rates of one to two inches per hour may coincide with rush hour. Winds of 40 mph could create whiteout conditions and will make navigating roads extremely difficult. Disruptions at JFK and LaGuardia airports are likely between noon Wednesday and Thursday morning. Total accumulations in the Big Apple should range between six to 12 inches, but a few spots in the lower Hudson Valley may top 14 inches. Snowfall amounts will walk a tight gradient in the city; while Long Island could see rain mixing in, the amounts will increase sharply within and just west of the city. From Providence, R.I., to Boston, the forecast is much more difficult. Winter storm watches are in place in these areas until the forecast becomes more certain. In question is where the rain-snow line will develop. Areas closer to the coast will have rain, while areas inland will get snow. How far inland is still uncertain. Cape Cod and the Islands will see mostly rain, with communities southeast of Interstate 495 struggling to pick up an inch of snow. In Boston, the worst of the storm will be between 8 p.m. Wednesday and  2 a.m. Thursday. Boston and Providence could end up with 4 to 8 inches, and it won’t take too much of a drive west to get more than 12 inches of snow accumulation. Central Maine and New Hampshire could see about 10 inches, while closer to the coast a heavier, wetter snow will reduce the “fluff factor” a bit. Seven to 11 inches is possible over most of Vermont. There is a chance that two areas in the Northeast could get slammed with about 14 inches of snow. The first is along the band of deformation in the storm — a narrow strip where winds pushing and pulling in different directions create a miniature vacuum in the upper atmosphere. Rapidly-rising air then produces a narrow ribbon of very heavy snowfall, sometimes eclipsing two inches per hour. That looks as though it will set up somewhere along or just west of the New York metro, snaking northward through southwest Connecticut and up into Massachusetts just west of Interstate 91. That’s why snowfall estimates in New York are so sensitive to where this band ultimately sets up; if it shifts just a few miles east or west, that could mean the difference between a few inches and a foot. Likewise, the other significant snow totals will probably be in northern Connecticut and central Massachusetts. Here, an impressive snow band will set up as a result of frontogenesis, where air masses of different temperatures lead to convergence and rapid ascent of air. It will occur just west of the rain-snow line. Thundersnow is also likely in the most vigorous snow bands. The storm should depart Thursday morning in southern New England, sticking around in Maine until late Thursday and into the wee hours of Friday.