Former Maryland attorney general Douglas F. Gansler is endorsing Richard S. Madaleno Jr. in the Democratic gubernatorial primary, adding to the list of current and former elected officials from Montgomery County backing the three-term state senator. Gansler, who made an unsuccessful bid for the Democratic nomination for governor in 2014, announced his endorsement at a rally Monday in Kensington. Last year, Gansler toyed with the idea of jumping into the race himself. A month after he decided not to run, a Goucher poll found that Gansler had the highest name recognition of all the candidates in the crowded field. Madaleno, who is vice chair of the Budget and Taxation Committee, is completing his third term in the Senate. He also served one term in the House of Delegates. A critic of Gov. Larry Hogan (R) in Annapolis, he has been slow to gain traction in polls but has recently picked up endorsements from key officials from his home county, including U.S. Rep. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Md.). About a dozen members of the Montgomery County delegation in the General Assembly, including Sens. Susan C. Lee and Will Smith and Dels. Anne R. Kaiser and David Moon, also have given their support to the campaign. Prince George’s County Executive Rushern L. Baker III, who is at the top of recent polls, is backed by other high-profile elected Democrats from Montgomery, including County Executive Isiah Leggett, U.S. Sen. Chris Van Hollen and Attorney General Brian E. Frosh. Former NAACP president Ben Jealous has been endorsed by key progressive groups in the state, including Progressive Maryland, the Service Employees International Union and Maryland Working Families. A recent Mason-Dixon poll found Baker leading the primary field with 26 percent support, followed by Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz with 15 percent and Jealous with 14 percent. Madaleno, who would be Maryland’s first openly gay governor, received 4 percent. local md-politics  Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Afternoon Buzz newsletter Major stories about the D.C. area, weekdays at 4 p.m. Please provide a valid email address. Thirty-two percent of the respondents said they were undecided. The primary is June 26. Also running for the Democratic nomination are attorney James Shea, tech entrepreneur Alec Ross, former Michelle Obama policy director Krishanti Vignarajah and perennial candidate Ralph Jaffe. The winner of the primary will face Hogan in November’s general election. Read more on the governor’s race: No Md. women in Congress, but lots running for lieutenant governor Madaleno taps Luwanda Jenkins as his running mate