   The preference for walkability among every age group has led to an explosion of development in urban areas and the creation of mini-cities in the suburbs, so residents can replicate the experience of living near restaurants and work. Among the most sought-after walkable parts of the District is Logan Circle, where residents can take their pick of enjoying the park, a play, a casual meal, an elegant dining experience or picking up groceries on the way home from work. The neighborhood is what first drew Holly Maine, director for Mid-Atlantic sales for Spotify, to buy a condo at Elysium Logan at 1427 Rhode Island Ave. NW. “I was living in a small condo near Shaw, but I wanted to be in a neighborhood that was more walkable and central,” Maine says. “I can walk to work and to almost everything, plus I can use buses and Uber or walk to the Dupont Metro station.” [88 single-family homes will complete final section of Calvert County development] Elysium Logan’s 32 condos, which range from under $500,000 for a one-bedroom unit to about $3 million for a duplex penthouse, are already nearly half-sold, with just 12 units left. “This is the most high-end luxury building we’ve built so far,” says Barry Madani, co-founder of Madison Investments. “No expense was spared, because we know how much people want to live in this location.” Peace and privacy: Details such as triple-pane windows and thick concrete between floors keep the condos quiet, and a private elevator for the front-facing units adds a touch of prestige for those condos. “The two-bedroom units are large, with 1,400 to 1,900 square feet, plus the penthouses have 2,000 to 2,400 square feet,” Madani said. “We designed those to appeal to downsizing empty-nesters or to high-net-worth individuals. But we also designed half the building with one-bedrooms with 550 to 750 square feet, so there’s a mix of units.” The main amenity for residents is the neighborhood, Madani said. The building has a front desk and concierge services. Elysium Logan fills a former vacant lot and was designed by PGN Architects, with interiors by Akseizer Design Group. The condos facing Rhode Island Avenue have balconies and bay windows; the interior units, particularly on the lower levels, view adjacent buildings. [Grand Villa townhouses for active seniors are priced from $600,990 to $709,346] Although the two-bedroom units have balconies, the building doesn’t have a communal roof deck. Maine said she didn’t use the roof deck at her previous condo, so she doesn’t miss it now. “I knew I wanted new construction and a larger, but not huge building,” Maine said. “Elysium also appealed to me because it’s very modern, and the unit has a neutral palette that you can leave as is or personalize.” Bay windows: The units get larger on higher floors, with just four condos per floor on the second-through-sixth levels and three units on the penthouse level. Unit 301, a two-bedroom, three-bathroom condo that faces Rhode Island Avenue, can be reached via a private elevator directly into the foyer or from the building’s regular elevator and hallway. The unit is priced at $1,849,900, with a condo fee of $907. The 1,800-square-foot condo features a dramatically open kitchen, den, living area and dining area, each of which is somewhat defined by bay windows in between the regular floor-to-ceiling windows. Half-height windows on the bays can be opened; the other windows cannot. This unit has a coat closet next to the front door, a powder room for guests and a full-size laundry room with space for adding shelving for extra storage. The master bedroom has two walk-in closets and a large bathroom with an oversize shower, a double-sink vanity and a free-standing soaking tub. The second bedroom has a double-door closet and a private balcony. Unit 304, a two-bedroom, two-bathroom condo priced at $1,409,900, with a monthly condo fee of $755, has a coat closet and a laundry room, with a closet near the front door. Across one end of this 1,500-square-foot unit is an open space that includes the kitchen, a study, a living area and a dining area with a balcony. The master bedroom in this condo includes two walk-in closets and a large bathroom with a free-standing soaking tub, a double-sink vanity and a glass-enclosed shower. The second bedroom has a door to the second bathroom, which is also accessible from the hallway. The bedroom has two pocket doors connected to the living area and a walk-in closet. Penthouse 801, a two-bedroom, 2,300-squre-foot condo with two full bathrooms and two powder rooms, is priced at $2,999,900, with a monthly condo fee of $1,209. Although this unit is similar on the main level to Unit 301, its main living area is narrower because it includes two balconies on the front, in addition to the balcony off the second bedroom. A staircase behind the kitchen leads to the upper level, which has an open family room, a built-in wet bar, a powder room, and access to a roof deck with a view of the Washington Monument and the city skyline. The building has eight parking spaces, three of which are reserved for the penthouse purchasers. What’s nearby: Trader Joe’s and Whole Foods grocery stores are close, along with the Studio Theatre, the Source Theatre, the Black Cat and Vegas Lounge music venues, and numerous restaurants to match every taste: tapas at Estadio and Barcelona, seafood at Pearl Dive Oyster Place, French food at Le Diplomate, pork-centric meals at the Pig, Belgian food at B Too, and Italian food at Ghibellina, Lupo Verde and Etto’s. Residents can walk to Dupont Circle, Adams Morgan and U Street for more restaurants and shops. Schools: Ross Elementary, School Without Walls @ Francis-Stevens, Cardozo High. Transit: The neighborhood is served by numerous bus routes. Six Metro stations are within one mile: Dupont Circle, Farragut West, Farragut North, McPherson Square, Shaw and U Street.  1427 Rhode Island Ave. NW, Washington The remaining condos are priced from $1,299,900 to $2,999,900. Builder: Madison Investments Features: The condos have open floor plans with hardwood flooring, floor-to-ceiling triple-pane windows, quartz counters, high-end stainless-steel appliances from Thermador and Bosch, cabinets from Poggenpohl, walk-in closets, free-standing soaking tubs in the master bathroom, glass-enclosed showers, backlighted vanity mirrors and floating vanities. Many units have a full-size laundry room, and the two-bedroom units have balconies. Some units have semi-private elevator access. Bedrooms/bathrooms: 1 or 2 / 1 to 4 Square footage: About 550 to 2,300 Condominium association fees: $755 to $1,209 per month for the remaining units View models: Open by appointment. Contact: Kurt Rieschick, vice president of McWilliams|Ballard, at 202-415-3446; or visit elysiumlogan.com.