We’re living through such terrible times. As the Trump administration and its enablers in Congress assault everything from the norms of governance to helpless American families to the very air we breathe, it can be hard to have any hope for the future. Yet as veterans of the AIDS crisis and the fight for gay liberation will tell you, we’ve faced hopelessness before. Now that “Angels in America,” the signature work of art of those struggles, is returning to Broadway, it serves as a much-needed reminder that change for the better is possible and that hope, no matter how hard-won or embattled, can be a powerful political force. Twenty-five years ago, in the spring of 1993, “Angels in America” was the unlikeliest of hot tickets. An epic in two parts about politics, cosmology and Roy Cohn, the play featured rough sex and graphic scenes of AIDS-related illness. Characters mouthed off about Reaganism for pages at a time; the promised angel didn’t even appear for 3 1 / 2 hours. But Tony Kushner’s play was the subject of bitter competition among Broadway producers before he had even finished writing it, and Part 1 won the 1993 Pulitzer Prize while it was still in rehearsals. Above all, the play was a consideration of the psychic and cultural toll of an epidemic that had, by the year “Angels” opened, killed more than 100,000 Americans, mostly gay men. And neither the disease nor the country’s treatment of its gay citizens seemed to be getting better. “ ’92 was a remarkable uptick in the death rate,” said David France, the writer and director of “How to Survive a Plague,” a documentary about the early years of the AIDS crisis. “By 1993, ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ had launched a conversation about gay people that was as hostile as it had ever been.” For gay people living in the shadow of the epidemic, “those years were the worst in some ways.” [AIDS remains a problem. But is it still a priority for the gay community?] Kushner wrote the play in the late 1980s and early ’90s, and as we learned while interviewing hundreds of directors, writers and activists for our oral history of “Angels,” the terror and rage that suffused the play also fueled the protests of that era. The radical activist group ACT UP, making the “drugs in bodies” case that medication in clinical trials should be available to all AIDS patients, was closing the Food and Drug Administration and staging “die-ins” at the National Institutes of Health . Meanwhile, Kushner participated in ACT UP protests alongside his friend Stephen Spinella — who would win two Tony Awards playing the AIDS patient and prophet Prior Walter in “Angels” — and wrote scenes in which his characters stole experimental AIDS drugs. (An early, abandoned plotline featured an AIDS nurse forming an ACT UP-like activist group called Pink Underpants.) But the play wasn’t only about the darkness: It had bright humor and a wild need to entertain. Beyond that, it was hopeful. “Angels,” Kushner told us, “describes a time of great terror, beneath the surface of which the seeds of change are beginning to push upwards and through.” The play’s hope doesn’t come from self-delusion or from hiding the truth from the audience. In “Angels,” AIDS is portrayed in all its horrors, and its characters’ actions are far from ideal. Yet by portraying gay men as fully, complicatedly human — and central to the story of American history — “Angels” redefined how gay characters could be presented to mainstream audiences. “Before that, homosexuality was depicted as either some psycho perversion . . . or a cheap punch line,” the actor Karl Miller, who portrayed Prior in a 2009 production in Silver Spring, Md., told us. “Then Kushner comes along and lays down nothing less than a new book of the Bible with five titanic gay leading roles at its center.” The response to “Angels” was like nothing anyone on Broadway had ever seen. Parts 1 and 2 both won the Tony Award for best play. “I’d walk through the West Village,” said Marcia Gay Harden, who played the character of Harper, “and people would come up to me and say, ‘I took my parents to see the play and then I told them I was gay.’ Or ‘I took my parents to see it and then I told them I was dying.’ And we would cry on the street. That happened once every couple of weeks.” Part 2 ends with Prior Walter — having survived, for the moment, both his illness and his dramatic ordeal — addressing the audience directly, combining theater and activism in a thrilling and touching final speech. Spinella played Prior for the show’s entire run, and for 217 performances, he delivered that speech to New York City audiences: “We won’t die secret deaths anymore. The world only spins forward. We will be citizens. The time has come.” [I thought gay rights were safe. Now I know I was wrong.] A quarter-century later, gay people are citizens, more rapidly and more completely than many activists of the AIDS era could ever have expected. And the invention of triple cocktails and preventative drugs such as PrEP has transformed — though not ended — the AIDS crisis in America. In hindsight, these advances seem inevitable, but they’re due in large part to those activists who cut their teeth on direct action in the play’s time — learning to be a movement and fighting together, no matter how hopeless the outcome looked. It’s a lesson worth considering in this era of fresh protest against a new malevolent administration, led by a president who learned dirty tricks at the hand of “Angels” villain Roy Cohn. For AIDS activists and gays and lesbians, 1993 was an awful year, but the seeds of change had been planted, even if we didn’t see them sprouting yet. 2018 feels similarly dark for many of us — but the Women’s March and Black Lives Matter and immigration activists who are protesting and organizing and running for office are planting the same kinds of seeds. Over the next 25 years, what flowers will bloom? “These are dark, very dark days,” Kushner told us. And into this era of turmoil, doubt and protest comes “Angels in America,” returning to Broadway. This time, Andrew Garfield stars as Prior and Nathan Lane as Cohn, in a production that reaffirms the play’s status as the most alive, alert work of American art of the past 25 years. The “Angels” of the Trump years has yet to be written. (Maybe Kushner, who claims to be working on a play about the president, will write it.) But while we wait for it, this play, and the lessons of the civil rights campaign it dramatized and popularized, can inspire us again in this new, critical fight against marginalization and despair. Twitter: @parabasis @dankois  Read more from Outlook and follow our updates on Facebook and Twitter. 