Arnaud Beltrame, a French police officer who willingly took the place of a hostage during a standoff with a rampaging gunman Friday in France, died of injuries suffered in the incident early Saturday. His bravery earned him recognition as a hero in a country that has been shaken by a number of terrorist attacks in recent years. Beltrame, 44, was a lieutenant colonel in the gendarmerie, a part of the French military that focuses on domestic policing. He had previously been decorated for his bravery during operations in Iraq and spent four years in the early 2000s in France's Republican Guard, protecting the Elysee Palace in Paris. On Saturday evening, the Elysee Palace announced that Beltrame would receive a national honor for "giving his life to protect our fellow citizens," according to reports in French media. Le lieutenant-colonel A. Beltrame est tombé en héros pour mettre un terme à l’équipée meurtrière d’un terroriste djihadiste. J’adresse à sa veuve, à ses proches, à ses frères d’armes mes condoléances les plus sincères et j’appelle chaque Français à honorer sa mémoire. “He fell as a hero,” President Emmanuel Macron had said in a statement earlier Saturday, calling on French citizens to honor Beltrame's memory. “France will never forget his heroism, his bravery, his sacrifice,” French Interior Minister Gérard Collomb wrote in a tweet. Le lieutenant-colonel Arnaud Beltrame nous a quittés.Mort pour la patrie.Jamais la France n’oubliera son héroïsme, sa bravoure, son sacrifice. Le coeur lourd, j’adresse le soutien du pays tout entier à sa famille, ses proches et ses compagnons de la @Gendarmerie de l’Aude. pic.twitter.com/I1h8eO7f9a According to the Elysee, Beltrame had graduated from France's top military college, Saint-Cyr, in 1999. He was later chosen to join the gendarmerie's elite GSIGN in 2003, and he was deployed to Iraq in 2005. He was married but had no children. It was only last year that he was named deputy chief of the gendarmerie in France's Aude department. The French president's office noted that his understanding of counterterrorism had won him appreciation in that position. Beltrame lost his life while trying to end a police standoff with a gunman at a supermarket. Authorities say Redouane Lakdim, 25, hijacked a car Friday near the town of Carcassonne in Aude, killing a passenger and wounding the driver. Lakdim also shot at a group of police officers on their morning jog, wounding one of them. In the nearby town of Trèbes, the gunman then stormed into a supermarket and took hostages. Beltrame was one of the first officers to respond, authorities said. Police negotiated with Lakdim to release the hostages, and Beltrame offered himself in place of the final one. Inside the supermarket, Beltrame tried to negotiate with Lakdim. He left his cellphone active on a table to allow authorities outside to listen in. When police heard gunshots, they stormed the building and fatally shot Lakdim. Three other people were killed and several others were injured during Lakdim's rampage. News of Beltrame's heroics spread quickly. In an address to the nation Friday, Macron commended the officer, who was then on his deathbed in a hospital: “He saved lives. He is fighting for his life.” France has suffered a number of terrorist attacks in recent years, including in another market — in January 2015 an attack on the Hyper Cacher kosher supermarket in Paris left four people dead. In an interview with the local Depeche du Midi newspaper in December, Beltrame described being trained to counter a terrorist attack on a supermarket. “A mass killing took place in a supermarket. This is the only information that was given to the police,” he told the newspaper, according to a translation from Reuters. “We want to be closer to real conditions, so there is no pre-established scenario.” In an interview with RTL radio, Beltrame's mother said she was not surprised that he would give himself up for a hostage. “He has always been like that — someone who, since he was born, was doing everything for his country,” said his mother, whose name was not disclosed. “He would say to me: 'I'm doing my job, Mom. That's all.” On RTL's website, a poll showed overwhelming support for organizing a national honor to Beltrame. The French gendarmerie said Saturday that flags would fly at half-staff in honor of the slain officer. L'ensemble des drapeaux et étendards de la gendarmerie sera mis en berne aujourd'hui. Ce décès en mission nous rappelle la valeur de l'engagement qui est le nôtre, au quotidien, pour protéger la population.Toutes nos pensées accompagnent son épouse et ses proches. Richard Lizurey Tributes have also come from abroad: Un vrai héros! https://t.co/CB2XaqBntH Arnaud Beltrame put himself in harm’s way to save another human being. It cost him his life. We all owe a huge debt of gratitude to this hero. pic.twitter.com/SC8Z2cyQjP Lt Col Arnaud Beltrame, wounded after taking the place of a hostage in the attack yesterday at #Trèbes, gave his life to save the lives of others. Truly a hero. Our thoughts this morning with his family and his comrades. And our solidarity with France pic.twitter.com/Ly2xIl90h9 world  worldviews Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Today's WorldView newsletter What's most important from where the world meets Washington Please provide a valid email address. Correction: An earlier version of this story misreported Beltrame's age. He was 44, not 45. Read more: French police officer who swapped himself for gunman’s hostage dies