Police in Toronto have released the photograph of a deceased man they believe to be the seventh victim of suspected serial killer Bruce McArthur, adding to the grim toll of the case that has set Canada’s biggest city on edge. The city’s police said that they were releasing the photo of the deceased man despite its potential to shock because they are looking for help identifying the man, who they have thus far been unable to name. “I do not want to release this picture and I’m doing so as a last resort,” Hank Idsinga of the Toronto police service told reporters, according to the Toronto Star. “I’ve never done this. I do it with great hesitation.” It was not immediately clear where the man’s body was found or why police believe it to be connected to McArthur. McArthur, a 66-year-old landscaper, is charged with first-degree murder for the suspected deaths of six men. Police said they have found the remains of seven men in planters at a property where McArthur did landscape work, the Star reported. Three of the remains have been identified: Andrew Kinsman, 49, Soroush Mahmudi, 50, and Skandaraj Navaratnam, 40, according to the Guardian. Another three victims, Selim Esen, 44, Majeed Kayhan, 58 and Dean Lisowick, are presumed to be dead, the Guardian reported. A large man who is believed to have once worked as a mall Santa, McArthur was arrested at his apartment in Toronto on Jan. 18. McArthur is believed to have met his victims in the city’s Gay Village and on gay dating apps, according to the Associated Press. Police had warned last month that they were in the process of sifting through case files from the past 40 years and that the number of murder charges in the case could rise. “There are literally dozens of missing people you could fit into the same profile that we’ve been looking at,” Idsinga told W5, a public affairs program in Canada last month. “I’ve never seen anything like it.” [6 bodies were found dismembered in landscape planters in Canada. There might be more.] Speculation about a serial killer preying on men had percolated in Gay Village for years. Police had formed a task force to investigate the disappearances in 2012 but it was shut down 18 months later. Despite more disappearances, another task force was set up last year though police continued to deny that a serial killer was at large until McArthur was arrested. Many of the cases involve men of South Asian and Middle Eastern origin, some of whom had hidden their sexual orientation from their families. Some members of the gay community have accused the police of failing to take the disappearances seriously because of the men’s ethnic backgrounds and sexual orientation. Read more: world  worldviews Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Today's WorldView newsletter What's most important from where the world meets Washington Please provide a valid email address. A serial killer may be responsible for body parts found in coolers, Japanese police say The billionaires were found dead in their mansion. Now police say they were murdered. ‘I wanted to roll his head,’ cousin of murdered billionaire says in bizarre TV interview