President Trump on Thursday imposed tariffs on imported steel and aluminum but offered relief to some U.S. allies, a move that marks his administration’s most protectionist step yet but stops short of the global tariffs his GOP allies begged him to avoid. The tariffs, set to take effect in 15 days, do not apply to imports from Canada and Mexico so that U.S. officials can assess progress as they renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement. Other countries with a “security relationship” to the United States may seek exemptions by opening talks with the administration on “alternative ways” to address the threats the administration alleges their products pose to national security. business economy      false after3th true Economy & Business Email Alerts Breaking news about economic and business issues. Please provide a valid email address. “You don’t have steel, you don’t have a country,” Trump said at a White House ceremony where he signed separate proclamations for steel and aluminum. “Our industries have been targeted for years and years, decades in fact, by unfair foreign trade practices leading to the shuttered plants and mills, the laying off of millions of workers, and the decimation of entire communities. And that’s going to stop. It’s going to stop.” The tariffs mark Trump’s most significant move to date to protect domestic industries from foreign competition, part of a campaign promise to unwind free trade pacts Trump blames for undercutting U.S. manufacturing and hurting the blue-collar base that helped propel him into the White House. And they threaten to start a global trade war if major trading partners follow through on threats to retaliate with tariffs on U.S. products. But the plan differs significantly from Trump’s initial suggestion last week that he would apply the taxes to imports from all countries, a change that follows a week of pleas from his fellow Republicans to narrow the tariffs or abandon them entirely. The initial exemptions for Canada and Mexico are not time-limited but appear tied to NAFTA renegotiations. Trump threatened to tear up the agreement last year and is asking the two nations for more favorable trade terms. For countries that do not win exemptions, steel imports will be taxed at 25 percent and aluminum imports at 10 percent. If Mexico and Canada win permanent exemptions, tariffs on imports from other nations may be increased beyond 25 percent, a Trump official said on a call previewing Trump’s announcement. “I’ll have a right to go up or down depending on the country, and I’ll have a right to drop out countries or add countries,” Trump said earlier Thursday while previewing his announcement in an appearance alongside his cabinet. “We’re going to be very fair, we’re going to be very flexible, but we’re going to protect the American worker, as I said I would do in my campaign.” [How the establishment is losing out to little-known Trump advisers on trade] Republicans have been pushing Trump to back off his planned tariffs since he shocked the party when he said last week he would impose the levies. A temporary exemption for NAFTA members marks progress in that effort, but lawmakers continue to press the president to further narrow the tariffs. Immediately after the announcement, Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), a Trump critic who is retiring from Congress, announced he would be introducing legislation to nullify the tariffs. But despite the widespread GOP condemnation of the tariffs, few fellow Republicans appeared to have much appetite to challenge the move legislatively, especially given the difficulties of assembling a veto-proof majority to oppose a president of their own party. Instead, they have resorted to public criticism of the proposal, which continued Thursday. “I am pleased that the president has listened to those who share my concerns and included an exemption for some American allies, but it should go further,” House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) said in a statement. “We will continue to urge the administration to narrow this policy so that it is focused only on those countries and practices that violate trade law. There are unquestionably bad trade practices by nations like China, but the better approach is targeted enforcement against those practices.” Democrats have been largely quiet on Trump’s trade plan, but Sen. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.) praised Trump’s effort. “As big, multi-lateral trade agreements have been ratified and Wall Street and big corporations line their pockets, we’ve seen jobs pour out of West Virginia for cheaper labor markets in foreign countries,” Manchin, whose state’s major industries stand to benefit from more domestic steel production, said via a statement from his office. Republican lawmakers also criticized the confusing run-up to Trump’s announcement, with Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) calling the process “chaotic and confusing.” Hours before Trump’s promised announcement, foreign diplomats, industry leaders and Trump allies were still in the dark. Their outreach to senior administration officials seeking definitive answers was returned with shrugs or unanswered calls. “The people in the building have no idea what’s about to happen,” one Trump donor who opposed to the tariffs and spoke on the condition of anonymity to be candid said Thursday morning As can be Trump’s wont, the president left Washington in suspense via an early morning post on Twitter. At 7:38 a.m. Thursday, he wrote: “Looking forward to 3:30 P.M. meeting today at the White House. We have to protect & build our Steel and Aluminum Industries while at the same time showing great flexibility and cooperation toward those that are real friends and treat us fairly on both trade and the military.” The meeting was not on the president’s daily schedule, released to the public Wednesday night. Several hours after Trump’s tweet, senior White House aides did not know whether the announcement would happen Thursday. Trump dispelled those doubts later that morning during the Cabinet meeting, when he again touted the tariffs and previewed his afternoon announcement. The White House was also being lobbied heavily against the tariffs by outside conservative groups that have worked with the administration on other issues, including passing the new tax cut law. Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity, an advocacy group backed by the billionaire GOP donor Koch brothers, warned in an interview that the tariffs could harm Republican prospects in the November midterms when Democrats hope to retake control of Congress. “If American consumers are paying higher prices on a wide range of products just as the economy is starting to take off, it can slow the economic recovery,” Phillips said. “It could definitely impact the midterms.” Business leaders say the new tariffs will be difficult to unwind, since the administration claims they are needed to protect national security. And they fear that the steel and aluminum tariffs are only the beginning for an increasingly protectionist administration. “China’s the big target,” said Carlos Gutierrez, Commerce secretary under President George W Bush. “They want to get on to China as quickly as possible.”   Josh Dawsey contributed to this report.  