The Washington Wizards could have played it cool, convincing themselves that Saturday was just one more day on a calendar crammed with challenges, and that the Indiana Pacers were another wounded opponent missing healthy big men, making them an easy target. But the Wizards have reached the point of the season when they can no longer deny the significance of these remaining games — especially one against an opponent they could very well face in the first round of the playoffs. They talked up the importance of matchups like Saturday night’s final regular season meeting with the Pacers, then backed up their words with a resounding, 109-102 victory in Capital One Arena. “It was very important for us,” guard Bradley Beal said. “We knew what was at stake with this game. We want to make sure that we took care of it, and we did that.” Earlier in the day, Beal considered the game’s consequences — the winner would own the edge in the three-game season series and thus have the upper hand in playoff positioning if the teams finished with the same record — and described the game as a “must-win.” By the evening, he took primary responsibility in defending fellow all-star Victor Oladipo while also creating for his teammates (six assists) and filling in his own offensive spaces for a team-high 19 points on 6-of-12 shooting. [Jodie Meeks has a new nickname but the same confidence] “We want to win games. That’s our main priority — winning ballgames,” Beal said. “Wherever we fall at the end of the year is where we fall. We definitely want home-court [advantage], for sure, and we’re just going to make sure we put ourselves in a good position to succeed for the playoffs.” The Wizards’ win left both teams at 40-30, but the tiebreaker gives Washington possession of the Eastern Conference’s fourth spot. If the teams end up tied for fourth, the schedule for their opening-round playoff series would include four games at Capital One Arena, where Washington built a lead as large as 21 points and many in the announced crowd of 18,249 rose in the final seconds to applaud. “Knowing we have [12] games left, we have to continue to win games. We have tough teams coming into our house,” center Marcin Gortat said. “It’s obviously going to be very hard for us to win those games, but we have to continue to fight. If we’re going to play like we played today, we should be fine.” [With Ramon Sessions on board, what does that mean for John Wall’s return?] The Wizards were focused from the start, opening a 12-point lead at halftime, and they were not affected by playing a team that was far from full strength. For most of the game, the Pacers used just nine players; starting center Myles Turner and backup Domantas Sabonis both sat out with left ankle injuries. Washington took advantage of the disparity in depth: Gortat scored 18 points and grabbed eight rebounds while matched against veteran Al Jefferson, and power forward Markieff Morris remained in the game despite foul trouble to produce 15 points. The Wizards learned a lesson Wednesday night — facing a Boston Celtics team that competed without six key players, Washington fell way behind and needed double overtime to win — so they prepared as if Turner would play Saturday night. They never allowed themselves to view Indiana as vulnerable. “When you know all those guys are out, you think it’s going to be easy,” Beal said. “The Boston game, we got smacked in the mouth. In a sense, it is different when it’s just one player, but it’s happened before where it was just one player and . . . they still were kicking our butt. So I think it’s kind of a natural thing to do, but it’s a bad habit.” Instead, Washington respected its opponent and corrected mistakes from the teams’ previous matchup. On March 4, Oladipo, the former All-Met from DeMatha, torched the Wizards for 33 points during the visiting Pacers’ 98-95 win. On Saturday night, Oladipo did not find the same lanes and easy buckets; he finished with 18 points but needed 16 shots to get there. Bojan Bogdanovic, who scored 20 points in the March 4 meeting, produced just 11 points against his former team Saturday. “Last game, he got free on a lot of curls. We put a lot of pressure on our bigs to help out, and I thought they did a terrific job,” Wizards Coach Scott Brooks said. “Marcin started it, and Ian [Mahinmi] did a good job in that first half and came back in the second half and did the same thing. “Bojan is good; we know that. We’ve had him. He makes tough shots. He made a couple of tough shots tonight, but we didn’t give him easy shots like we did a couple weeks ago.” More on the Wizards and the NBA: Last time out: Wizards rally from 20-point deficit to beat Celtics in double OT Brooks says ‘it’s time’ for Wizards to start prepping for the playoffs Ian Mahinmi has been glued to the bench lately, but he’s not sweating it Saturday’s scoreboard from around the association