As time dwindled on the Atlantic 10 quarterfinal against Saint Joseph’s on Friday, George Mason had the final possession and an opportunity to hoist another buzzer-beating shot against the Hawks. The Patriots did not bother to shoot. Time had run out on them long ago. And so they held the ball. Given their accuracy rate at Capital One Arena, they probably would’ve missed anyway. The fifth-seeded Patriots fell hard, 68-49, in their lowest scoring output of the season. They shot 26.5 percent in the second half and 29.5 overall. They made 2 of 25 three-pointers, 1 of 17 after intermission. And unlike the previous two meetings with the fourth-seeded Hawks, no last-second shots were going to rescue Mason this time. In the regular season, Otis Livingston II and Ian Boyd had made game-winners as time expired. “We just couldn’t shoot the ball,” Coach Dave Paulsen said. “If you’re going to have a game like that, you don’t want it to be in the conference tournament.” The Patriots (16-17) missed a chance to advance to the semifinals for the first time since joining the Atlantic 10 in 2013-14. Instead, the Hawks (16-15) moved into Saturday’s 1 p.m. semifinal against top-seeded Rhode Island, which ousted Virginia Commonwealth in Friday’s opener. Saint Joseph’s was worse than Mason in the first half but shot 50 percent and made six of 10 three-pointers after the break. Nick Robinson led four double-figure scorers with 14 points, making three three-pointers and adding nine rebounds and four assists. Jaire Grayer scored 12 points for the Patriots but shot 4 of 16. He also had 13 rebounds. “Coach told us to just keep shooting those shots,” said Livingston, the team’s leading scorer on the season, who was 3 of 13 and missed all seven three-point tries. “You don’t want to think about [the misses] too much, just shoot the open shot.” The first half was brutal: Mason shot 33 percent, Saint Joseph’s 31 and the Patriots led by a point. Following the high-intensity opener between Rhode Island and VCU, this game, played before a smaller crowd, felt like a first-round affair. After “the energy and the fierceness of the first game,” Hawks Coach Phil Martelli said, “there was a little bit of air out of the building.” After the pause, the Hawks turned exclusively to a zone and slowly pulled away. Aside from making four of their first six three-pointers, the Hawks found gaps in George Mason’s defense and converted easy baskets. Meantime, the Patriots’ shooting grew worse. They missed nine of their first 12, several from close range. Consecutive three-pointers by Robinson and Taylor Funk extended the margin to 47-34 and triggered a Paulsen timeout. Livingston followed with a basket, but the Patriots slipped back into their shooting rut. They finally began to stir with about eight minutes left. While the Hawks were scoreless for 5 ½ minutes, Mason scored seven straight but also missed several opportunities to draw closer. Funk’s three-pointer with 3:15 left put the outcome to rest. Despite the disappointing end, the Patriots were upbeat about a program that does not have any scholarship seniors and will add Virginia transfer Jarred Reuter, a much-needed inside player. “It’s good to know everyone will be back,” freshman Goanar Mar said, “and we’ve been in so many different situations, that we’ll have that much more experience.” Paulsen was eager to get back to work. “This team improved more than any team I’ve coached in 24 years for the course of the season. And all those guys are coming back. I want them to feel good about the growth and improvement and then I want them to remember the sting and get back to work and be consumed with getting better.” ●RHODE ISLAND 76, VCU 67: Jeff Dowtin, a sophomore guard from Upper Marlboro and St. John’s High School, scored 18 points and triggered a decisive 8-0 run with his third three-pointer as the Rams (24-6) pulled away from the No. 8 seed VCU (18-15) in the last five minutes. Jared Terrell posted 16 points and Stanford Robinson (Landover, Paul VI) made two key baskets for 25th-ranked URI. Despite foul trouble, Justin Tillman finished with 23 points and 15 rebounds for VCU, which fell short of the A-10 final for the first time since joining the conference in 2012. VCU will also miss the NCAA tournament for the first time since 2010. URI, ranked No. 25, led by nine in the first half and three at intermission on Fatts Russell’s three-pointer at the horn. The game was tight in the second half until Dowtin scored five points and Robinson sank a three-pointer.