One person died and others were injured when a bus carrying band members from a Texas school crashed in Alabama, authorities said Tuesday. Robyn Bradley Bryan, a spokeswoman for the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency, said in an e-mail that there were “multiple injuries” in the early morning crash. Those who were injured were taken to hospitals in Alabama and Florida. At a Tuesday morning press conference, Capt. John Malone, of the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency, told reporters the driver of the bus died in the single-vehicle crash. “We’re looking at everything. Any time there is a loss of life, you’re particularly trying to speak for those who can’t speak,” he said. “But we look at what happened, how it happened, nature of the damage. They’ll inspect the bus, interview any witnesses.” My office has learned that the @NTSB will be sending a team to Baldwin County today to investigate the motorcoach crash. They will also send members of their Transportation Disaster Assistance division to help coordinate assistance to victims and families involved. The tour bus crashed on Interstate 10 about 5:30 a.m., Malone said at the press conference. It left the roadway, went into the median, and traveled down a steep embankment. The bus was carrying students returning from a trip to Walt Disney World in Florida, Malone said. They were going home to Channelview, Texas, a community about 15 miles from Houston. All the passengers had been accounted for on Tuesday morning. A video of the press conference was posted to Facebook by WPMI-TV, an NBC affiliate station in Mobile, Ala. A representative of the Channelview Independent School District did not immediately return an e-mail and telephone message from The Washington Post on Tuesday morning. A school district spokesman told the Houston Chronicle that high school band students were traveling on the bus. “At this time, details are limited,” spokesman Mark Kramer told the Chronicle. “We are in contact with law enforcement in Alabama trying to obtain further information.” First images from scene of bus crash on interstate 10. @mynbc15 pic.twitter.com/iEvnGUhFLv This story is developing and will be updated.