More than 2,300 flights, both domestic and international, have been canceled so far in the United States on Friday, according to FlightAware.com, most with destinations or departures in the Northeast Corridor, where a nor’easter was wreaking havoc from Virginia to Maine. In the D.C. region, more than 300 flights were either delayed or canceled at the three major airports. Reagan National, which has the most East Coast shuttle flights of the three airports, was especially affected, with more than 200 flights already canceled. In New York, the East Coast’s primary transportation hub, many travelers were left stranded, with more than 1,000 flights already canceled at Newark, LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy airports. Boston Logan, both a domestic and international flight center, reported 406 flights canceled. Citing the high winds, the Federal Aviation Administration issued temporary ground stops for arriving flights into Dulles International in Washington and at JFK and LaGuardia in New York. Winds in the D.C. area reached gusts of up to 70 mph. Forecasters say strong winds are likely to remain throughout Friday and into Saturday. [Get the latest weather info at Capital Weather Gang.] The weather system also created harried situations for planes in the air. One pilot who landed at Dulles on Friday morning reported many passengers getting sick during a “very bumpy” descent, according to the National Weather Service Aviation Weather Center. “Pretty much everyone on the plane threw up. Pilots were on the verge of throwing up,” the pilot said in an urgent report from a regional jetliner from Charlottesville. The United Fight 3833 was descending into Dulles around 7:38 a.m., and experienced moderate to severe turbulence at or around 4,000 feet, airport officials said. Many airlines are waiving change fees for flights in some cases. Travelers should check with their respective airlines. American, Delta, United and Southwest airlines — the four biggest carriers in the country — have flexible change policies for travel to the Northeast because of the storm. “One thing we can’t control is the weather,” American Airlines spokesman Ross Feinstein said. American has canceled about 1,260 flights in the Northeast so far Friday. About 18 percent of the carrier’s global operations are being affected by the storm, Feinstein said.  About 75 flights had been canceled for Saturday, he said. “This number may rise, depending on those conditions throughout the day,” he said.  United Airlines said it has canceled more than 100 flights in the Northeast and expects to operate a reduced schedule through the afternoon. High winds are also disrupting passenger rail service across the Northeast. Amtrak said weather conditions had slowed service between Washington and New York City. Officials said trains were operating with delays in the entire length of the Northeast Regional corridor and several trips had been canceled. Amtrak said a tree fell into the overhead power lines near the District, temporarily disrupting service. Updated service details on canceled or delayed trains is available at Amtrak.com. Travelers should check before they leave.Amtrak officials warned riders to prepared for delays along the busy Northeast Corridor. local  gridlock Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Must Reads newsletter 5 stories you can't afford to miss, every Saturday. Please provide a valid email address. High winds also caused signal outages along the corridor. By midday Friday, Amtrak had temporarily suspended service between New York’s Penn Station and Boston due to the storm. Flooding and downed trees made it difficult for trains to operate. Officials said trains currently in route could continue, but would likely arrive later than scheduled. Lori Aratani contributed to this report.