Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) apologized Friday for labeling supporters of the Affordable Care Act among the “stupidest, dumbass people” he has ever come across. In a written statement, Hatch characterized his remark as a “poorly worded joke about Obamacare supporters” that did not accurately reflect his feelings “towards my friends on the other side.” “Throughout my term of service, I have always recognized the importance of civility, particularly in engaging with those of different political perspectives,” Hatch said. “While I occasionally slip up, I believe that my legislative record reflects my commitment to bipartisanship and civility much more than my flippant, off-the-cuff comment.” During a Thursday speech at the conservative American Enterprise Institute think tank aimed mainly at touting the new tax law he helped shepherd toward passage last year, Hatch brought up the repeal of the ACA’s individual mandate. As part of their tax bill, Republicans ended that provision, which compelled most Americans to buy health insurance or pay a fine. “We also finally did away with the individual mandate — that tax that was established under that wonderful bill called Obamacare,” Hatch said. “Now, if you didn’t catch on, I was being very sarcastic. That was the stupidest dumbass bill that I’ve ever seen.” His comment triggered some laughter in the audience. powerpost  powerpost     false endOfArticle true The Energy 202 newsletter Your daily guide to the energy and environment debate. Please provide a valid email address. “Now, some of you may have loved it. If you do, you are one of the stupidest, dumbass people I’ve ever met,” Hatch continued. Hatch, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, is retiring at the end of his term. Former Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney is the front-runner in the race to replace him. In the past, Hatch has used sharp words for his political opponents. Early last year, he said some of his Democratic colleagues who were seeking to stall the confirmation of some of President Trump’s executive branch nominees “ought to stop posturing and acting like idiots.”