Elizabeth Holmes, founder and chief executive of the blood-testing company Theranos, has been charged with an “elaborate, years-long fraud” by the Securities and Exchange Commission in which she and former company president Ramesh “Sunny” Balwani “allegedly deceived investors into believing that its key product — a portable blood analyzer — could conduct comprehensive blood tests from finger drops of blood,” the SEC said Wednesday. Theranos and Holmes have agreed to resolve the charges against them but have not admitted nor denied the allegations. Holmes is ceding her voting control of the company and reducing her equity stake in Theranos. Theranos, a blood-testing start-up that promised to revolutionize consumers' access to their medical information, was a Silicon Valley darling once valued at $9 billion. Holmes had the perfect backstory: a college dropout turned chief executive who had assembled a company board filled with powerful ex-government and military leaders and wanted to change the world. business  wonkblog     false after3th true Economy & Business Email Alerts Breaking news about economic and business issues. Please provide a valid email address. The company fell from grace in a snarl of regulatory problems and the revelation that its proprietary technology was not being used in its blood tests. The SEC also alleges that Theranos, Holmes and Balwani falsely claimed that their products were being used by the Department of Defense on the battlefield in Afghanistan and on medevac helicopters. That technology was never used by the Department of Defense, even though Gen. Jim Mattis, who then led the U.S. Central Command, personally pushed for it to be used in the field. Regulatory officials in the military flagged problems with Theranos's blood-testing process. Mattis later joined Theranos's board. He resigned from that position when he became U.S. defense secretary. ''The Theranos story is an important lesson for Silicon Valley,'' Jina Choi, director of the SEC's San Francisco regional office, said in a statement.  ''Innovators who seek to revolutionize and disrupt an industry must tell investors the truth about what their technology can do today, not just what they hope it might do someday.'' In a statement, Theranos's independent board of directors said the company was “pleased to be bringing this matter to a close and looks forward to advancing its technology.” A lawyer for Holmes declined to comment. A lawyer for Balwani could not immediately be reached for comment.