D.C. police officer Alen Bukvic doesn’t remember the night last summer when a Dodge Ram pickup barreled down on him. He was with fellow officer Richard Duranne, directing traffic in Adams Morgan on June 8. Duranne was run over; Bukvic was struck so hard he flew 65 feet in the air. Police estimated the truck was traveling at 56 mph and didn’t slow until it slammed into a truck. Bukvic, 38, said he only recalls waking up at MedStar Washington Hospital Center. “I kept asking my wife what was going on,” the officer said. The crash had broken 37 bones and a rib pierced his heart. [Military style weapon found in vehicle that struck officers] Duranne’s injuries also were serious — five separate fractures to a single foot, a torn knee ligament, a broken nose and burns from the pavement to his face and hands. Both officers were honored Tuesday night at the police department’s annual award ceremony. They each received a Blue Badge medal — akin to a Purple Heart — given “for the sacrifices they have made.” The honor, officials said, is a reminder of the inherently dangerous job of policing. “On the scene his pulse was almost undetectable,” Police Chief Peter Newsham said as he presented the award to Bukvic. “It’s a miracle he’s here with us tonight.” Duranne, 39, couldn’t make the ceremony as he underwent his most recent surgery two days earlier. Nine months after the incident, both officers have been unable to return to their jobs. The driver of the Dodge Ram truck, Brandon Figures-Mormon, has been charged with two counts of assault with intent to kill, along with other offenses, and goes to trial May 6. The incident occurred about 9 p.m. in the 2400 block of 18th Street NW. Prosecutors have argued Figures-Mormon intentionally turned toward the officers and struck them; the suspect’s defense attorney has argued that he had a bad reaction to synthetic marijuana and didn’t strike the officers on purpose. Police found a military assault style weapon in the truck. [Prosecutors say driver of pickup truck intentionally struck officers] Bukvic joined the police department five years ago after having a career as a cabinet maker and furniture restorer in Virginia. “I’m getting better,” Bukvic said in an interview. “It’s still sometime before I can come back.” Before the crash, Bukvic had been assigned to the Third District patrol. He hopes to return as a detective and ease fears from his nervous wife. “I love the job and I love working with the people,” Bukvic said. He said getting honored helped him heal. “It added closure,” the officer said. Read more:  Seattle man arrested and accused of sending 11 suspicious packages to D.C.-area federal facilities  Federal jurors get their first raise in nearly 30 years  Her son, facing murder charges, is being called an ‘alt-right killer.’ This mother blames herself  