Students across the country are walking out of their classrooms Wednesday, as they call for safer schools and stronger gun-control legislation following last month’s mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida. The Washington Post’s Joe Heim and Susan Svrluga wrote that many of the walkouts were expected to last 17 minutes, a passage of time serving as a symbolic tribute to those killed in Parkland, Fla. [ High school students: What would make you feel safer in school? ] As Heim and Svrluga wrote, the demonstrations are “unprecedented in recent American history.” They continued: Supporters say they represent a realization of power and influence by young people raised on social media who have come of age in an era of never-ending wars, highly publicized mass shootings and virulent national politics. Pictures posted to Twitter showed students standing together and holding signs. At one school, they sang together. Video from another Twitter user showed students filing out quietly, holding signs. The Wilson Beacon, the student newspaper for Wilson High School in the District, posted pictures to Twitter of the school’s student walkout, showing a large crowd that had gathered. Wilson students walked out of class at 9:55 and congregated in the atrium to honor the lives lost to gun violence in recent weeks and make a call for stricter gun laws. #enough pic.twitter.com/XStWSAVzja At the foot of the US Capitol, chants of “do your job” roll through the crowd of students. #dc #walkouts pic.twitter.com/Uj8gkFz3sZ The Post is on the ground with students as they demonstrate Wednesday, reporting from Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Oklahoma and here in Washington. (Here’s a Twitter list of some reporters who are out in the field.) We’re also tracking how these protests unfold on social media. Below, you’ll find pictures, videos and social media activity that caught our eye. We’ll be updating this blog post throughout the day as demonstrations continue. If something is happening at your school or in your community and you would like to let us know, you can click here to email The Post. Students at Portland’s Lincoln High School preparing for the 10am #enough walkout with 17 empty desks to represent the 17 people killed a month ago in Florida. They demand gun violence be declared a public health crisis and are pushing for stricter laws pic.twitter.com/s2Mr9mtisX “Not in our schools! Not in our streets!” #schoolwalkout #NationalSchoolWalkout pic.twitter.com/Az9Fr0LW6X #WhyIWalkout pic.twitter.com/iar5SMqS1P #NationalWalkoutDay: Schurr High students walked out of class. pic.twitter.com/OKw6JLhyo5 "I think that kids learned to stick up for themselves. They learned that no matter how small, how tall, how loud their voices, how quiet, they can really make a difference if they lead together." —Iris Daniels, a freshman at Albany High pic.twitter.com/QE8rLZ9uNp Hundreds of students at Clark High School in Las Vegas are participating in the National #WalkOut. Event here was organized and supported by school administrators. They are currently holding a moment of silence for each of the lives lost in the #ParklandShooting. #VegasStrong pic.twitter.com/tnrTVgkJ4S JUST IN: @GarnetValleyHS formed a heart on their track field as a part of the #NationalWalkOutDay in honor of the 17 students killed in Parkland, FL just one month ago pic.twitter.com/odSP2TmoBr Covering a walkout this morning at an elementary school in Virginia, and the 11-year-old organizers had a press packet ready for me. pic.twitter.com/eeElhGciid Student-led protest today. More photos on Riverdale Facebook. #NationalWalkoutDay #changemakers #enoughisenough A post shared by  Riverdale Country School (@riverdalecs) on Mar 14, 2018 at 8:11am PDT local  education Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Must Reads newsletter 5 stories you can't afford to miss, every Saturday. Please provide a valid email address. This is a developing report and has been updated. Read More: ‘Just try to keep calm’: How Parkland students used social media to survive the shooting — and then to find their own voice 7,000 pairs of shoes on Capitol lawn show toll of gun violence Prosecutors will seek death penalty for Nikolas Cruz, Parkland shooting suspect