MT. LEBANON, Pa. — Republican Rick Saccone sought to hold off a stronger-than-expected challenge from Democrat Conor Lamb on Tuesday in a hotly contested House race that President Trump and the rest of Washington were watching closely as a bellwether for the midterm elections. The race in Pennsylvania’s 18th Congressional District — with its hard-to-predict outcome — has received a steady stream of national media attention because of its implications for President Trump and congressional Republicans as they fight to hold onto their majority in November’s midterm elections. Republicans spent more than $10 million to support Saccone, who received an 11th-hour campaign visit by Trump, while labor unions launched a coordinated effort backing Lamb. Trump won the district by nearly 20 points in 2016, but Lamb’s strength in the race underscored the political challenges facing the GOP this year: The party controlling the White House typically loses seats in the midterms, and an unpopular president does not help. Voters cast their ballots Tuesday amid news of further upheaval in the Trump administration. Trump ousted Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and plans to nominate CIA Director Mike Pompeo to take his place as the nation’s top diplomat as delicate negotiations proceed with North Korea, The Washington Post reported. Trump’s personal assistant, John McEntee, was also fired from his post Monday for an unspecified security issue, according to reports. News of Tillerson’s ouster interrupted local television reporting about the special election in the 18th district. But Lamb, voting shortly before 8 a.m. at his home precinct in Mt. Lebanon, argued that the race was not a referendum on the White House. “People are voting for either me or Rick Saccone,” he said. “I don’t think it has a whole lot to do with the president.” Asked about the president’s new tariffs on steel and aluminum, Lamb emphasized that both he and Saccone had supported them. [Stakes high for GOP in special House election in Trump slice of Pennsylvania] Saccone voted Tuesday morning in McKeesport, Pa. Surrounded by reporters and television crews, he exited the polling place while on a video call with his son, an Air Force officer stationed in South Korea. “Hey, son! Look at this — look at this mob!” Saccone said, turning his phone’s camera toward the crowd. The president figured into several voters’ decisions. In Mt. Lebanon, Dave Banyan, 65, said that he had made up his mind on the race “as soon as President Trump was President Trump.” He said he did not want Democrats to get one vote closer to controlling the House of Representatives. “I don’t want America to go back to the way it was” under President Barack Obama, said Banyan, a retired transportation worker. “Obamacare killed me. Dreamers — keep dreamin’, you know?” Janet Dellana, 64, said that Lamb had impressed her as a candidate, but that “national politics” had already been moving her toward the Democrats. In the wake of school shootings across the country, she said she had been outraged to see Trump call for arming teachers instead of limiting access to semiautomatic weapons. “He flip-flops on everything, but in the end, he caters to the extreme right,” said Dellana, a dental hygienist. “I am a registered Republican, but as this party continues to cater to the extreme right, they push me left.” Saccone spent the final hours of the campaign with Donald Trump Jr., the president’s oldest son, rallying at a VFW hall in his hometown of Elizabeth and warning Republicans that “the left” was energized politically for all the wrong reasons. “I’ve talked to so many of these [people] on the left, and they have a hatred for our president,” said Saccone. “I’ll tell you, many of them have a hatred for our country. ... my wife and I saw it again today: they have a hatred for God.” Asked about the comment Tuesday, Lamb said: “I have no idea what he meant.” Saccone also gave an interview Monday night to Fox News, using the opportunity to urge union voters to come out for him. “I’ve always supported you, I’ve always been with you,” he said. On Tuesday, Lamb planned to hit the polls with his grandmother, then with a conservative Democrat whom he defeated to win the party’s nomination. He focused on door-to-door campaigning Monday, holding no public events. The southwest Pennsylvania district will disappear this year because of a court decision that struck down a Republican-drawn map. But the resignation of scandal-ridden former congressman Tim Murphy — a Republican who did not even draw a Democratic challenger in his last two races — gave Democrats an opening that Lamb raced through. By Tuesday morning, Republicans were openly fretting that the Democrat might win the race, which would rattle the president’s party once again ahead of this year’s midterm elections. The final public poll, from Monmouth University, found Lamb ahead by two to six points depending on the intensity of voter turnout. Internal Republican polling also found Saccone trailing narrowly, though picking up a little ground since the president’s visit to the district. As national Republicans quietly blamed him for the closeness of the race, Saccone had started to portray himself as an underdog. The Republican won his party’s nomination in an upset after winning four terms in the State House through low-dollar, grass-roots campaigns. The White House sent Vice President Pence and White House advisers Kellyanne Conway and Ivanka Trump to the district in an effort to boost Saccone’s chances. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke announced new funding for mine reclamation at a town just outside the district, with the Republican candidate in attendance. Lamb, a Marine veteran and former federal prosecutor, ran as a protector of Social Security and Medicare who wanted “new leadership” to replace House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.). In the closing days, national Republicans argued that he had blurred the lines between the parties, gaining on Saccone only because he did not sound like a Democrat. “He’s pro-gun, he’s pro-tariff, he’s pro-Trump, essentially,” Republican National Committee chair Ronna McDaniel said in a Monday radio interview. “It’s going to be a tight, tight race when you have two people running basically for the same party.” Republicans in Pennsylvania have run with a slightly different spin, emphasizing that registered Democrats slightly outnumber registered Republicans in the rural areas south and west of Pittsburgh. “You have to remember, this is a Democrat district, notwithstanding the fact that the president won this by 20 points,” Pennsylvania Republican Party Chairman Val DiGiorgio said Monday on Fox News. [What Pennsylvania’s special election can tell us about Democrats’ chances to take back the House] Still, the area covered by the 18th district had been trending Republican for decades. Republican candidates for president carried the district by larger and larger margins starting in 2004, peeling traditional Democrats away from their party on issues such as abortion and gun rights. politics   Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. For months, the bulk of GOP-backed TV ads painted Lamb as a liberal and sought to link him to Pelosi, notwithstanding his criticism of her. But in the final weeks, Republicans pivoted away from that approach, attacking Lamb’s record as a federal prosecutor and targeting Democratic voters to say Lamb did not share their values on gun rights or the minimum wage. Lamb, whose strong fundraising totals meant he ran nearly as many ads as Republicans, countered those attacks while counting on support from labor unions — which have clashed with Saccone on issues such as right-to-work and pensions. [Trump’s tariffs forge rare common ground in Pennsylvania steel country]  Viebeck reported from Washington. 