Luce Rameau thought it was a bomb. What else could have caused the thunderous noise? Or the cloud of sawdust that fell from her roof and onto her as she laid in bed, chatting with a friend on the phone? Well, it turns out, an 80-pound, six-seat inflatable raft — which managed to puncture a giant hole through the ceiling of Rameau’s Miami bedroom on Wednesday. national  post-nation Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false   Please provide a valid email address. “I kept screaming, ‘What happened? What happened?’ ” Rameau told the Miami Herald. “I was shocked.” Also odd was the source of the disturbance: the Royal Canadian Air Force. Police told the Herald that the yellow raft fell from one of its search-and-rescue helicopters after an off-shore training exercise, as the CH-146 Griffon chopper headed back to Miami-Opa Locka Executive Airport. Air force crews had been training for water search-and-rescue missions in South Florida for a few weeks because of the warm weather there, the Herald reported. [ Remarkable photo shows an SUV’s crash landing — on the roof of a house ] Emergency officials were dispatched to Rameau’s house after receiving a call about something falling through the roof. Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Capt. William McAllister told the Herald that Rameau had “narrowly escaped disaster” with “only minor injuries.” While Rameau said she feels lucky that the raft didn’t hit her, she told the Herald she was still “shaken up.” A spokesman for the Royal Canadian Air Force, David Lavallee, told the Herald that the air force is investigating how the raft detached from the helicopter and in the meantime plans to support Rameau with accommodations. Read more: She disappeared from her driveway while her children were home. Police found her body in the woods. Man accused of sending abusive letters with ‘suspicious white powder’ to Trump Jr., Sen. Stabenow Denver mayor sent suggestive messages to police detective: ‘You look sexy in all that black!’