MOSCOW - Russia will close the American consulate in St. Petersburg and kick out 60 U.S. diplomats in response to Monday’s coordinated expulsion of Russian diplomats from the United States and a number of other countries, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Thursday. The move continues an ongoing escalation of tit-for-tat between Moscow and the West that began in early March with the alleged poisoning of a former Russian double agent on British soil with a Soviet-designed nerve agent. U.S. Ambassador Jon Huntsman was summoned to the Foreign Ministry Thursday night where Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov informed him of Russia’s response. [Russian ex-spy, daughter may have come into contact with nerve agent at their front door] According to a Foreign Ministry statement, 58 American diplomats from the Moscow embassy and two from the consulate in Yekaterinburg have been declared persona non grata. The United States expelled 60 Russians on Monday. The other American consulate in Russia, in Vladivostok, will not be affected. U.S. officials have hinted at further moves, possibly against Russian assets abroad. Huntsman told the local RBC news outlet earlier Thursday that such a move was “possible.” According to a Foreign Ministry readout of Huntsman’s meeting with Ryabkov, the U.S. ambassador was rebuked for the remark and warned such a move would have the “gravest consequences for global stability.” In Washington, State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said, “It is clear from the list provided to us that the Russian Federation us not interested in dialogue on the issues that matter to our two countries.” She added: “We reserve the right to respond.” In addition to the expulsion of Russian diplomats on Monday, the United States closed Russia’s consulate in Seattle — claiming it to be a hub of Russian intelligence activity and citing its proximity to a major American nuclear submarine base. On March 14, British Prime Minister Theresa May ordered the expulsion of 23 Russian diplomats after Moscow rebuffed an earlier demand to explain how a Soviet-designed and Russian-produced nerve agent known as novichok came to be used in Britain. [Watch: How the world learned about Novichok] Last week, 10 of Britain’s allies, including the United States, agreed to coordinated expulsions of Russian diplomats, believed to be intelligence officers, from their respective countries. The movement grew this week to include 27 countries. A tally by the Associated Press put the total number of expelled Russian diplomats at more than 150. The number of expulsions in other nations was mostly in the single digits. “All [measures] regarding the number of people who will have to leave the Russian Federation [...] will also be mirrored with respect to other countries,” Lavrov said. “This is the situation as of now.”  Russia’s move, in particular against the United States, “is a minor escalation,” said Alexander Gabuev, an analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Center and a former foreign policy correspondent for Kommersant. “Sixty diplomats is tit-for-tat, but shutting down the consulate in St. Petersburg is asymmetrical and escalatory — a mirror response would have been to shut down the Vladivostok consulate.” The Russian Foreign Ministry ran a poll on Twitter this week asking users to vote on which of the three consulates to respond against. St. Petersburg won the poll. Vladivostok is the headquarters of Russia’s Pacific Fleet. The St. Petersburg consulate has been given two days to pack up. All 60 of the American diplomats subject to the expulsion order have one week to leave. Russian officials from President Vladimir Putin on down have maintained that Moscow had nothing to do with the poisoning of former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in the British town of Salisbury on March 4. Both Skripals remain hospitalized. British authorities on Thursday said Yulia was showing signs of recovery, while her father remained in serious but stable condition. A police officer who came in contact with the substance was also hospitalized but has since recovered. [Trump administration expels 60 Russian officers, shuts Seattle consulate ] Speaking before Parliament on Monday, May said that around 130 British citizens came in contact with the substance. May also said that Russia has offered up 21 different arguments concerning the use of the novichok agent. Those arguments have ranged from denials that novichok ever existed, to accusing other former Soviet satellites of producing it. The only thread linking Russia’s series of denials is that Moscow had nothing to do with it, and that the accusations are little more than a provocation. Meanwhile, Russia has demanded that Britain hand over a sample of the substance for analysis, and demanded access to Yulia Skripal -- a Russian citizen. Britain has not ceded to either demand. The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), an international body, has arrived in Salisbury to conduct its own analysis of the chemical used in the poisoning. It is expected to reveal its findings in two or three weeks. world europe  Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false World News Email Alerts Breaking news from around the world. Please provide a valid email address. The OPCW has said it will hand its findings over to Britain, TASS reported Thursday. Lavrov said that Russia was calling for a special session of the OPCW’s executive council on April 4 to discuss the situation, establish a dialogue and “raise specific questions” about Skripal’s poisoning and the alleged use of a novichok nerve agent. If Western nations shy from engaging in a dialogue via the OPCW, Lavrov said, it would prove that the allegations against Moscow are nothing more than a “brazen provocation.” He also said that the OPCW could only confirm the substance used, not Britain’s assertions that Russia was behind it. Read more    Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news 