 * Winter weather advisory for Prince George’s, Montgomery, Anne Arundel, Howard and Frederick counties through 10 a.m. * 11:20 p.m. update Snow continues, from Manassas to the west, to Annapolis to the east, to Dale City to the south and to Olney to the north. Snow is mostly sticking to grassy areas, but we have seen increasing reports of some slush on roads during heavy bursts, especially on the east side of town.  Temperatures have fallen to between 32 and 34 degrees, cold enough at night for snow to stick some. We don’t need to worry about a hard freeze of this overnight, however, as temperatures should remain steady or even rise a couple of degrees after the snow subsides. Between 1 a.m. and 3 a.m., we do expect this first wave of snow to taper off, but a coating to a couple of inches of wet snow could accumulate before it tapers. The highest amounts of an inch or more are most likely east and northeast of the Beltway, where the snow has been heaviest and will last the longest. In fact, in these areas, there may not be much of a break between this first wave and a second wave coming in before dawn Wednesday, and are now under a winter weather advisory.  The second wave on Wednesday morning doesn’t look like it will be much of a snow-producer, however, until you reach northeastern Maryland and locations farther to the north. Be sure to check back in with us early Wednesday morning, when we will resume updates. If you need to be out tonight, take it slow. Below, find some photos of the snow:    9:45 p.m. update Rain and snow has transitioned to mostly snow around the Beltway, along Interstate 95, and to the east. Some of the snow is heavy – falling at a hard enough clip for some slushy accumulation, even on roads. It may continue this way for a couple more hours, at least – which could produce some one-inch totals. Locally higher totals cannot be ruled out in a few spots east of the Beltway, toward Annapolis where it is snowing particularly hard. Where moderate to heavy snow is occurring, temperatures have fallen to 32 to 35 degrees. While conditions are passable, motorists should watch out for low visibility and slick spots out there. Here are some photos:    We’ll do one more update between 11 and 11:30 p.m. 7:55 p.m. update A mixture of rain and snow is streaming into the area from the southwest. Temperatures are generally between about 36 and 40 degree. Over the next couple of hours, we’ll probably see this precipitation transition to mostly snow from Fairfax County and Prince George’s counties and to the north, and remain more mixed to the south. Temperatures should fall a few more degrees, but remain mostly above freezing. This means snow accumulation, if any, should mostly occur on grassy areas. Short-range modeling has this precipitation exiting around 2 a.m., but then a new batch developing around 5 or 6 a.m. Original post from 5:10 p.m. [Some sloppy snow likely Tuesday night through Wednesday morning in D.C. area, some slushy accumulation possible] Temperatures tended to the cool side Tuesday. Highs in the low and mid-40s are a good bit below normal by this point in the season, and there was certainly a chill to the air to go along with the increasingly stormy-looking skies. Odds of precipitation head upward this evening, although this storm seems to want to be a nuisance more than anything else, at least around here. Listen to the latest forecast:  Get our daily forecasts on your Amazon Alexa device. Click here to find out how. Through Tonight: We’ll see precipitation tend to increase in coverage this evening. It may start entirely as rain, but we should see it mix with and turn over to snow with time, most quickly north and northwest of the city while rain most likely stays south and east. Accumulation odds are better as you head north as well, although some could occur locally. The focus of any of that is likely to be on grassy and elevated surfaces, unless intensity is quite hard. There may be a post-midnight lull, while skies stay cloudy. Lows end up reaching the near freezing to mid-30s range. View the current conditions at The Washington Post. Tomorrow (Wednesday): A second round of precipitation may be developing or ongoing near and after sunrise, which could affect the commute. For the most part, this should be light in the immediate area. Snow is favored to the north, while the Interstate 95 corridor may see a mix, with rain farther south and east. Winds will pick up and turn gusty out of the northwest as precipitation tapers off during midday, and we might see breaks in the clouds before sunset. Highs are in the mid-40s or so. See Matt Rogers’s forecast through the weekend. And if you haven’t already, join us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter and Instagram. For related traffic news, check out Dr. Gridlock. Hunting radiosondes: This is a fascinating story of a weather balloon chaser across the pond. He’s found more than 150 at this point! Want our 5 a.m. forecast delivered to your email inbox? Subscribe here.