It’s hard to tell what’s most shocking about a new viral video that shows a man squeezed into the crawl space underneath a New York City subway platform in the moments after a train barrels into the station. There’s the fact that the man survived the oncoming train and emerged from underneath the platform visibly unscathed. And then there’s the fact that he appeared equal parts annoyed and defiant in the moments after the near miss, tossing a bottle of soda at the cab of the train before scrambling back onto the platform to continue his day. The incident occurred on Monday at Grand Street station in New York’s Chinatown neighborhood. The New York Post identified the man in the video as 52-year-old Rafael Gonzalez, who was later taken by police to Bellevue Hospital. Gonzalez had ducked underneath the platform in the moments before the train arrived at the station, according to accounts from witnesses. Passengers on the platform thought he fell, or was attempting to take his own life. “Everyone turned away, thinking he was dead — it was terrible,” 31-year-old subway rider Shon Mogharabi told the New York Post. Mogharabi, who took the video footage of the incident, said he tried to grab Gonzalez before the man went under. “Then he waved his hand from between the train and the platform and we were all shocked.” Gonzalez appears unconcerned in the aftermath of the incident. The video shows him waving his hand from beneath the platform, then gently patting the side of the train — all while holding a lit cigarette, which he proceeds to stub out on the subway car’s metal siding. [ LeBron James and the Cavs rode the New York subway, and not everyone was happy about it ] In the next shot of the video, Gonzalez scrambles out of the crawl space underneath the platform, picks up a bottle of Canada Dry off the platform, and tosses it defiantly at the front window of the cab of the train. Minutes later, a team of firefighters marches down the platform, apparently expecting to conduct a rescue. “Is he under?” one of the firefighters asks a Metropolitan Transportation Authority employee. The firefighters don’t realize that the man in the black hoodie sauntering past them is their would-be victim. The MTA employee, and the gathered crowd, point at Gonzalez making his way down the platform. “This guy right here?” the firefighter asks, incredulous. Someone in the crowd yells: “He’s right here!” “He crawled out from under the train and over to the front,” the MTA employee explains. “Hey, buddy, hold on for a second,” the firefighter says. “Slow down. Are you okay?” Gonzalez spins around and does a little one-two step, without a word. “Whoa, are you dancing?” the firefighter said. “Did you get hit?” Gonzalez concludes his jig with a body-roll against the window of the train, as passengers looked on. [ New York’s subway crickets, and other tales of loose animals inside crowded trains ]