The first two vehicles, flattened beyond recognition and with three bodies inside, were extricated from the wreckage of a collapsed pedestrian bridge near Miami on Saturday, as workers continued to dig through the rubble. The three bodies were among six fatalities believed to have occurred in the Thursday collapse of a span under construction near Florida International University, but authorities said that number could rise as more vehicles are removed. Of the eight vehicles originally caught beneath the 950-ton span, six had been trapped entirely, with four “very difficult to extract,” said Maurice Kemp, deputy mayor of Miami-Dade County. “We’re open minded to the fact that we may find more victims than we initially projected,” Kemp said at a news briefing Saturday. Police confirmed they’re reviewing reports that construction workers said they heard a loud cracking sound come from the structure around 8 a.m. Thursday, almost six hours before it collapsed. “That’s all part of the investigation,” said Juan Perez, director of the Miami-Dade Police Department. At 9 a.m. Thursday, contractors on the project held a two-hour meeting to discuss a crack in the structure, but the lead engineer concluded “there were no safety concerns, and the crack did not compromise the structural integrity of the bridge,” according to an FIU statement early Saturday morning. The bridge crashed to the road at 1:47 p.m. [Florida bridge engineer reported crack two days before it collaped, state says  ] Late Friday, Florida officials revealed that a lead engineer for the private contractor on the project had left a voicemail message for a Florida Department of Transportation official Tuesday, two days before the bridge fell, warning of “some cracking.” The engineer, who works for FIGG Bridge Engineers, reported that he did not consider it a safety issue. The official didn’t hear the message until Friday, after the collapse, because he had been out of the office on assignment, the department said. On Wednesday, project officials also scheduled a meeting for mid-day Thursday, according to the department. FIGG Bridge Engineers, which designed the span, said in a statement Friday night that it is “carefully examining the steps that our team has taken in the interest of our overarching concern for public safety.” The company added — in an apparent reference to its engineer’s conclusion that safety was not an issue — that “the evaluation was based on the best available information at that time.” During the Thursday morning meeting, a state consultant met with members of the project team but was not told of a safety problem, the department said. “The responsibility to identify and address life-safety issues and properly communicate them is the sole responsibility of the FIU design build team,” the department said. “At no point during any of the communications above did FIGG or any member of the FIU design build team ever communicate a life-safety issue.” The university later added that the Thursday morning meeting was convened by FIGG and Munilla Construction Management (MCM), which built the bridge, “to discuss a crack that appeared on the structure.” At the Saturday briefing, FIU President Mark Rosenberg did not elaborate on the fact that FIU had known about the report of cracking. “We are cooperating fully with the authorities in this investigation,” Rosenberg said. Asked whether he believed that reporting the cracking to the state through a voicemail message represented “due diligence,” Rosenberg declined to comment, citing the ongoing investigation. Perez, the Miami-Dade police director, referred questions about the investigation to the National Transportation Safety Board. On Saturday morning, flatbed trucks carried the two vehicles, draped in black tarps, to the medical examiner’s office. Police identified four victims as Rolando Fraga Hernandez, 60; Oswald Gonzalez, 57; Alberto Arias, 53; and Navarro Brown, whose age was not available. Brown died at a hospital, police said. Hernandez was in a gold Jeep Cherokee pulled from the rubble at 5:40 a.m. Saturday, and Gonzalez and Arias were in a white Chevrolet truck extricated at 7 a.m., police said. That could leave at least two people presumed dead in the remaining vehicles, though Perez noted that some of the vehicles might not contain any bodies. local trafficandcommuting  Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Local Headlines newsletter Daily headlines about the Washington region. Please provide a valid email address. Relatives also have confirmed the death of Alexa Duran, 18, according to media accounts. Perez said chaplains were with victims’ families, and workers recognized moments of silence as vehicles were brought out “so these victims can have some dignity.” “It’s going to be a long process,” Perez said of the removal of trapped vehicles. “We’ve been saying that from the begining because of the amount of weight and the size of the structure that is laying on top of these vehicles.” 