It’s not by intent, but the constant turmoil within President Trump’s White House does actually provide him some benefit: It draws attention away from all the turmoil surrounding his picks to run the major federal departments. Cops don’t prioritize ticketing cars parked illegally near a hostage situation. That second-tier turmoil is also important, of course. But even at the Cabinet level, Trump’s administration sees widely varying levels of chaos and criticism. So we ranked them, from most to least tumultuous.   The current HHS secretary is Alex Azar, who assumed that role in January. His tenure has been unremarkable, which might make you wonder why HHS is ranked as the most tumultuous Cabinet position. And the answer, of course, is that Azar has been there only since January. Before him, the department was led by Tom Price, a former congressman from Georgia who, upon being confirmed, began flying around the country on private jets. He was supposed to be Trump’s lead on efforts to gut and replace the Affordable Care Act, but Price never seemed to play much of a role in that fight over the course of 2017. (The fight was unsuccessful, of course.) By the late summer, he was embroiled in questions about his travel that led to his resignation. Congress passed a repeal of the Obamacare individual mandate in December as part of the tax bill, but Price was gone by then. Price’s main contribution to the fight against Obamacare was to scale back the department’s investments in promoting enrollment to undercut the program. Before he left, Price also faced a number of questions about stock trades made while he was in Congress and transitioning to the department. David Shulkin was elevated to head the VA after Trump was inaugurated. He’s had some successes that Trump has celebrated; a focus on veterans and their health was a frequent part of Trump’s campaign rhetoric. But Shulkin has also been embroiled in a number of controversies. In the summer, he traveled to Europe with his wife. The trip was ostensibly work-related, and taxpayers covered the bill for her travel. While there, the pair attended the Wimbledon tennis tournament. As it turns out, there were a number of problems with that trip. The Wimbledon tickets were an improper gift, the VA’s inspector general found, and, while in Europe, a VA staffer was made to act as a “personal travel concierge” for the Shulkins. Even the rationale for the trip — that Shulkin was receiving an award — was phony. His chief of staff doctored an email from the Danish government to make it look as if Shulkin was getting the honor so the trip could be justified as work-related. (That staffer has since resigned.) The inspector general wrote that its office “cannot determine the value VA gained” from the trip. It doesn’t end there. Shulkin’s position has in recent weeks seemed tenuous — both because of internal dissension and apparent frustration from Trump. Two former Trump campaign staffers at the VA have reportedly worked around Shulkin to hold meetings related to VA business. The Post reported last month on an internal effort to oust Shulkin. At one point, a news release in which Shulkin defended himself from the inspector general’s report was removed from the department website and replaced with a statement excluding that defense. HUD secretary Ben Carson has been in the news in recent days because of plans to redecorate his offices well in excess of an allocated budget. A staffer alleged in a complaint that she was told you couldn’t get “a decent chair” for the $5,000 he was allowed to spend; a plan to spend $31,000 on a dining room set was reversed only in the past 24 hours. Beyond that, though, there have been a number of questionable statements and decisions made by Carson during his tenure at HUD. In July, a senior department staffer raised concerns about Carson’s son having seen personal financial gain from a visit to Baltimore by his father. Carson’s son, his son’s wife and Carson’s wife, Candy, have participated in official HUD business. It was Candy Carson who reportedly worked to get a bigger budget for Carson’s redecoration plans. Even the announcement that the dining set purchase would be canceled came not from HUD itself, but from Carson’s outside aide, Armstrong Williams. Beyond all of that, a number of questions have been raised about Carson’s fitness for his job. In May, he suggested that public housing shouldn’t be so nice that it would “make somebody want to say: ‘I’ll just stay here. They will take care of me.’ ” Imagine a Cabinet secretary who was forced to recuse himself from a major investigation into a foreign country’s efforts to sway a presidential election and who was repeatedly personally attacked by the president he serves. Whose department has been repeatedly disparaged both by the president and the president’s party. Now imagine that this Cabinet secretary isn’t the one who’s faced the most turmoil. Attorney General Jeff Sessions is in an awkward position: His boss clearly wishes he’d leave, but Sessions refuses to go. Trump sees the Justice Department’s investigations into the 2016 campaign as a threat, but Sessions can’t and won’t curtail them. Trump and his allies on Capitol Hill disparage the FBI as biased and corrupt and special counsel Robert S. Mueller III as being on an unfair fishing expedition, but Sessions’s hands are tied. The Justice Department is in a topsy-turvy state, but it seems to be weathering Trump’s attacks fairly well. Sessions’s policy priorities may not be in sync with many Americans, but he’s pushing forward on them nonetheless, with little interruption. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was once in a position similar to Sessions’s. Trump has repeatedly disparaged Tillerson in public and private, at one point telling Tillerson on Twitter to head to the sidelines and, in essence, let the big kids handle things. But Tillerson, despite repeated rumors that he was on his way out — and despite never actually denying that he once called Trump a moron — remains at the State Department. The turbulence there turns out to be mostly underneath the secretary. A number of ambassadorial positions remain unfilled, including in South Korea. (The likely nominee for that role withdrew recently out of concern about Trump’s rhetoric on North Korea.) Last year, the head of an organization representing America’s diplomatic corps warned that the system was being gutted. On Thursday, the ambassador to Mexico — like others before her — announced plans to leave her position, worried about tension between Mexico and the U.S. (The ambassador to Panama resigned in January, citing Trump’s leadership.) Much of this, though, is by design. Tillerson’s mandate was to reduce the size of the State Department, and he is. This turmoil, in other words, isn’t entirely accidental. In any other administration, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke would be on the hot seat. He, too, has faced criticism for taking private-plane flights that were paid for by taxpayers — including back to his home in Montana. Some of that travel wasn’t documented in the way that is required. After Puerto Rico granted a contract to repair hurricane-damaged electrical systems to a small company in Zinke’s home town, the administration was forced to declare that Zinke had nothing to do with it. More recently, two scientists from the U.S. Geological Survey resigned after Zinke asked that they share confidential data on oil reserves before it was made public. “This is simply a matter of them wanting to control information,” one of the scientists said. If you are familiar with Steven Mnuchin, the odds are good that you are also familiar with his wife, Louise Linton. She’s made repeated headlines on her husband’s behalf, none of them helpful. There was the time she disparaged a commenter on her Instagram post. There was the dollar-bill photo. There were others. Those were mostly PR headaches, though. Mnuchin has faced more serious questions that have nothing to do with Linton. On two occasions, the department’s inspector general has investigated Mnuchin’s activity. The first deals with an August trip Mnuchin took on a department jet to Fort Knox in Kentucky — that happened to coincide with the solar eclipse passing overhead nearby. He was eventually cleared of using a government plane solely to eclipse-watch. Mnuchin was also investigated after pledging analysis of Trump’s tax plan that would show it paying for itself. That report never materialized, and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) asked the IG to investigate whether Mnuchin withheld a report that contradicted his public claims. He was cleared in that investigation, too. During the confirmation process for Trump’s Cabinet picks, no one spurred more objections than Betsy DeVos. She was confirmed only after Vice President Pence cast the tie-breaking vote. As secretary of education, though, she’s largely avoided scandal. Questions arose after the Department of Education awarded a debt-collection contract to a business that once had ties to DeVos, but otherwise, most of the objections to her tenure have been political. Energetic — but political. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross has managed to largely stay out of the limelight as well. Earlier this year, it was reported that Trump was frustrated with deals secured by Ross, but the detail that captured the public imagination was that Ross often fell asleep during meetings. Rick Perry came to the Department of Energy apparently unclear about what the department did. Shortly after he began work there, Vanity Fair ran an exhaustive article detailing the ways in which Perry seemed unprepared for the central risks that the department is meant to address. “Since Perry was confirmed,” Michael Lewis wrote in September, “his role has been ceremonial and bizarre.” That said, Perry’s inexperience and detachment, which seem to rival Carson’s, haven’t led to public screw-ups or controversies beyond political ones. It seems likely that Perry’s experience in politics was probably an asset. Secretary Elaine Chao has similarly avoided much public attention. While Price drew attention for private air travel, Chao was reported to have used government planes on occasion instead of taking commercial flights — a benefit that comes with the Federal Aviation Administration (which she oversees) owning a Cessna. Those flights, though, were determined to have been appropriate efforts to stick to her official schedule. Beyond political opposition, the controversy that’s been the biggest headache for Secretary Alexander Acosta was the decision to add union-busting former president Ronald Reagan to the Labor Hall of Fame. Even in a normal administration, that doesn’t count as a serious controversy. There have been two main points of turmoil at DHS. One was the appointment of a new secretary after Trump tapped John F. Kelly to serve as White House chief of staff. That transfer went smoothly, save for appointee Kirstjen Nielsen stating during her confirmation hearing that she didn’t know whether Norway was majority white. (This was at the height of Shitholegate.) Tumult — but of the expected kind. The other way in which DHS has seen some new energy has been in Trump (and Kelly and Nielsen) giving Immigration and Customs Enforcement free rein to arrest immigrants in the country illegally. The resulting crackdown has meant a lot of new activity at the department, but activity that Trump (and Kelly and Nielsen) endorse. Did you know that the Secretary of Agriculture is Sonny Perdue? It is. He has made significant headlines precisely once during Trump’s presidency: when he was named as the designated survivor during Trump’s State of the Union address. Jim Mattis earns the top position here because he, unlike most of Trump’s Cabinet, seems to actually have the ability to tamp down melodrama outside of his department. Mattis’s leadership of the Department of Defense has not been without turmoil, but he’s been effective at managing an agency central to Trump’s ambitions. He is one of the few people in Trump’s orbit who seems to be able to push back on the president in a way that doesn’t lead to resentment. For example, Mattis is expected to oppose Trump’s spur-of-the-moment Twitter ouster of transgender troops from the military. Mattis handled the controversy effectively: absorbing the heat from Trump and allowing the process of determining the best course of action to finish. Trump’s response to Mattis’s recommendation remains to be seen, but this is the guy who once successfully pushed back on Trump about torture, a policy that had been a frequent component of Trump’s campaign rhetoric. The bar for Mattis to be the Trump Cabinet member overseeing the least drama was low. But he surpassed it.