In an NCAA tournament filled with surprises, Saturday night’s second national semifinal is probably the most glamorous of March Madness. The two remaining No. 1 seeds, Villanova and Kansas, meet to determine who will face Loyola Chicago or Michigan in Monday’s national championship game. Follow the game here as we update throughout the night. [ Loyola Chicago vs. Michigan: Pregame reading and live updates ] Schedule: Villanova (34-4) and Kansas (31-7) are scheduled to tip off 40 minutes after the conclusion of the first semifinal, at approximately 8:49 Eastern time. Television: The game will be broadcast on TBS. Jim Nantz, Grant Hill and Bill Raftery will be on the call for the fourth straight year. Tracy Wolfson will offer reporting. *** SAN ANTONIO — The adage that college basketball games in March and April hinge on guard play in this young 21st century will find another of its pinnacles Saturday evening in the second game, when Villanova and Kansas each send out consensus all-American point guards who combined for 7,746 college minutes, 223 starts, 2,385 field goal attempts (46 percent made), 1,152 three-point shots (40.3 percent made) and, as important as all of it, 1,053 assists. If it comes to free throws, as it can, Jalen Brunson and Devonte’ Graham have taken 860 of those. They have made 692. For connoisseurs of guard play, guard-play intellectuals and maybe even the sporadically curious, it should stand as a treat and an emblem of a sport that, over time, ventured out onto its perimeter. Kansas Coach Bill Self confessed that, even while coaching his team, he won’t mind gazing out that way a bit. “You know, the thing that makes both, at least in my eyes, that makes both Jalen and Devonte’ so good is they’re terrific players, but their intangibles are even better than their abilities,” Self said. “It will be a chess match with both of them. Jalen obviously can do a lot more than play point. He can be a lead guard, but he’s also an unbelievable, efficient offensive player. And he may be, probably is, their best post-up player as well. That’s different than we’re used to. “Devonte’ has to guard Trae [Young of Oklahoma] and Jevon [Carter of West Virginia] and Keenan [Evans of Texas Tech], which are all-American-type guards, but we’ve never had to guard one as diverse and skilled in so many areas as what Jalen is. It will be a great matchup. Even though we switch a lot and they do, too, I hope they’re matched against each other quite a bit because I think it will be fun for people to see that and certainly fun as to coach to it.” [ Brewer: Bill Self is the same, unassuming coach. And yet he has embraced change. ] All coaches are different, so Villanova’s Jay Wright planned to avoid looking while acknowledging the temptation. “You know, I really try not to think about those types of things,” Wright said. “And I really don’t think I would enjoy any matchup against Devonte’ Graham, really would have fun with it . . . He’s a difficult matchup. And you can put a smaller guy on him like Jalen, but I think he’s got the ability to shoot over someone close to his size. And you put a bigger guy on him, he’s got the quickness to go by him. So I wouldn’t say I look at it exactly like Bill.” He later said, “And it’s tempting when everyone is talking to you about the matchup, when you’re the player they’re talking about, it’s just tempting for it to get in your head. I don’t think he’s let it.” Everyone else is, of course, free to eyeball the potential feast. There will be Brunson, the 6-foot-3, 190-pound point guard who came out of Lincolnshire, Ill., as Rivals.com’s 20th-ranked player in 2015, and Graham, the 6-2, 185-pound point guard who came out of Raleigh, N.C., by way of New Hampshire, as the 36th-ranked player in 2014. On Friday, the U.S. Basketball Writers Association named Brunson its national player of the year, which Graham found “well-deserved.” Atop even his 19 points per game, his 4.8 assists, his 41.4 percent shooting from three-point range and his uncommon post play, Brunson got further hosannas from Oscar Robertson, the award’s namesake. “It means someone who really understands basketball,” Robertson said. “I think that a guard like Jalen controls the game. I played guard and I know what it takes. I know how you speed things up, slow things down. You get your team set for the offense. When they’re all out of proportion, they’re running all over the court, boom, you go out and settle own. They watch you. And to see what you can do. If you don’t get upset, you stay cool, they’re going to do the same thing. So Jalen has done that this season.” Said Brunson: “One of my favorite players of all time is Steve Nash, for sure. And I guess in today’s basketball, I love Chris Paul, the way he plays. Those are my idols just because they’re not, like, overly athletic. They’re not going to wow you with eye-popping athleticism or quickness or whatever like that, but they lead their team, they get the job done. And they’re very smart and use their talents and just their IQ to just get things done. And I really admire that. I really watched the way they played.” While Brunson’s packed three-season tenure glows with two previous Final Four games — both in 2016, when he played 21 and 22 minutes, scoring eight and four points with two assists all told — the emotion here tilts toward Graham. A smart, likable sort, he, along with Kansas, had gone home at the harshest round the previous two seasons, with regional final losses to Villanova in 2016 and Oregon in 2017. Those accentuated a long trail to here for a man already 23, who couldn’t get a release from an early commitment to Appalachian State, so spent an extra high school season playing at Brewster Academy in New Hampshire. He has built his way here while steadily coming to view himself as viable, then more than viable. “I mean, I think it started probably once I got to Brewster,” he said. “And I think a lot of my confidence went up and Coach Self believing in me once I got here to Kansas, probably toward the end of my freshman year is when I really started to believe that I could do something special here at Kansas.” In that game against Villanova in Louisville, in 2016, he scored 17 points on 5-for-9 three-point shooting in 35 minutes, adding seven rebounds, if no assists. Brunson played 22 minutes and went 2 for 6 with seven points and no assists. Villanova went through by 64-59. Kansas went home. They’re back and back together, and a lot of know-how has piled up since then. Series history: The schools have played six times, including twice in the last five seasons. Villanova won both those games by nearly identical scores: 64-59 two years ago in the Elite Eight, and 63-59 in the 2013-14 regular season. The teams are 3-3 head-to-head all time. Fast facts: Villanova is in its sixth Final Four, and second in three seasons … The Wildcats would tie the school’s single-season wins record by beating Kansas … The Wildcats need just six made three-pointers to tie the NCAA’s single-season record, set by VMI in 2007 … Jalen Brunson is the first Villanova player to score at least 700 points in a season since Kerry Kittles in 1994-95 … Coach Jay Wright is the school’s all-time leader in wins, and has a 25-11 NCAA tournament record at Villanova. … Kansas is in its 15th Final Four, and third under Coach Bill Self … Kansas now has 15 seasons with at least 30 wins, tied for the most in NCAA history with Kentucky … The Jayhawks have a 9-5 all-time record in national semifinals … Guard Malik Newman is averaging a team-high 21.8 points in the NCAA tournament, and was the Big 12 tournament MVP after averaging 28 points per game … Senior guard Devonte’ Graham averages 17.2 points and 7.3 assists a game. How Villanova got here: How Kansas got here: More college basketball: Coaches who lost to Loyola Chicago when no one was watching are inspired to see where it led. After Final Four classics, what will the women’s national championship do for an encore? Sister Jean holds a Final Four news conference and it’s ‘like Tom Brady at the Super Bowl’ sports  sports Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. John Beilein recruited Moritz Wagner to Michigan over a big German dinner and a beer For a hidden key to Final Four success, keep an eye on the shot clock ‘Just unbelievable’: The last time Loyola Chicago upended the college basketball world