President Trump made a surprise announcement during an infrastructure speech Thursday in Ohio, saying the United States would soon withdraw from Syria. “By the way, we're knocking the hell out of ISIS,” Trump said. “We're coming out of Syria, like, very soon. Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon — very soon we're coming out.” We can say a couple of things about this. The first is that you shouldn't take it to the bank. Trump has a tendency to spitball about very serious matters. At the same event, for instance, he suggested he might delay his newly struck South Korea trade deal so he has leverage to deal with North Korea. He also regularly says things will happen that, well, don't. But Trump's proclamation was also notable for one other reason: He telegraphed military strategy. That is something Trump criticized repeatedly on the 2016 campaign trail and the beginning of his presidency. He said it would only tip off the enemy, and he has said it specifically about Syria. “One of the things I think you've noticed about me is: Militarily, I don't like to say where I'm going and what I'm doing,” Trump said in April 2017 in remarks about Syria. “I'm not saying I'm doing anything one way or the other.” He later echoed that in an interview with “Fox and Friends” while talking about the situation in North Korea. “I don't want to telegraph what I'm doing, or what I'm thinking,” he said. “I'm not like other administrations, where they say we're going to do this in four weeks and that. It doesn't work that way.” Trump has regularly talked about how the Obama administration previewed an attack on Mosul in Iraq for so long that the Islamic State fortified itself for the coming attack. “I have often said that General MacArthur and General Patton would be in a state of shock if they were alive today to see the way President Obama and Hillary Clinton try to recklessly announce their every move before it happens — like they did in Iraq — so that the enemy can prepare and adapt,” Trump said in his big speech about fighting terrorism in August 2016. While discussing that and North Korea at a February 2017 news conference, Trump said he would apply a different approach. politics  the-fix Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. “I don't talk about military, and I don't talk about certain other things — you're going to be surprised to hear that,” he said. “And by the way, my whole campaign, I'd say that. So I don't have to tell you. I don't want to be one of these guys that say, 'Yes, here's what we're going to do.' I don't have to do that. I don't have to tell you what I'm going to do in North Korea.” Trump does seem to have less concern about telegraphing troop withdrawals, calling for getting out of Iraq and Afghanistan repeatedly on the campaign trail. But now that he's president, he's in a position to make such withdrawals happen rather quickly. The 2016 Trump would probably argue that announcing you're getting out of Syria before you do it might signal to the Islamic State that it can just bide its time until the United States leaves and then it will have only “other people” to contend with. It was an altogether strange utterance from Trump.