Gary Abernathy, a contributing columnist for The Post, is publisher and editor of the (Hillsboro, Ohio) Times-Gazette.     HILLSBORO, Ohio President Trump’s rocky relationship with his Justice Department is well documented. But there is one area where the president could take on the department and accomplish some meaningful reforms for the rural communities that heavily supported his election. Under the Justice Department’s wing is the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), which administers numerous grants designed to reduce crime in local communities. opinions   Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false   Please provide a valid email address. In October 2016, after two years of jumping through the usual hoops, Highland County — where Hillsboro is the county seat — was awarded nearly $844,000 from the BJA’s Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation Program (recently renamed the Innovations in Community Based Crime Reduction program) to tackle crime and blight in the Rocky Fork Lake region, which has a high rate of theft, vandalism and illegal drug activity — including the highly publicized opioid abuse plaguing this area. Residents and small business owners were optimistic that, for the first time in decades, real progress was being made toward the 1,384-acre lake becoming the recreational and tourist attraction that was intended when the state of Ohio carved it out of rock, fields and woods in the early 1950s. With the Byrne grant, the sheriff would be able to put a full-time deputy on lake patrol. A nutrition and job-training program would be established. Blighted properties would be rehabilitated into attractive parcels available for new businesses, community buildings or recreational facilities. But just a few months after the grant was announced, BJA officials put a hold on the funds. Among their objections was their “discovery” that a sub-recipient of a portion of the money was connected to the grant application, along with what they considered a “lack of internal controls.” What baffled local officials was that the sub-recipient — the Turning Point Applied Learning Center, a nonprofit agency that helps felons return to the workforce — was clearly identified in grant applications originally approved by the feds. The reason for involving a sub-recipient was because the tiny staff of the county commissioners — two clerks on average — would otherwise be unable to administer the grant and provide the necessary controls. In the months since the grant was placed on hold, commissioners have been frustrated by an inability to engage in meaningful conversation with BJA officials. The county turned to Ohio federal representatives such as Sen. Rob Portman (R) and Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R) for help. They tried but are limited by ethics rules prohibiting elected officials from appearing to strong-arm federal agencies in regard to grants or loans. The result is that agencies such as BJA face little pressure, but they also feel little need to be accountable. It’s a problem inherent in a system where elected officials come and go, but the bureaucracy is permanent. It lends credence to the president’s suggestion that earmarks weren’t such a bad thing, since they allowed elected federal officeholders — people who are directly accountable to the voters — to direct funds where they are needed without bureaucrats scuttling their implementation. When the Times-Gazette recently sought answers from the BJA, it took a week of repeated phone calls and emails, but some details that local elected officials had been seeking for months were finally provided. At the same time, BJA officials agreed to a meeting later this month with Shane Wilkin, the commission president. Maybe the media attention helped, but there is little hope the grant can be salvaged. Highland County’s experience reflects challenges faced by small communities across the nation. Federal assistance for infrastructure projects is common. But otherwise, small localities don’t pursue many grants compared to larger government entities, sometimes because of a philosophical aversion to asking for help, but often because they don’t have the manpower to administer the grants. The White House Rural Council under President Barack Obama acknowledged the problem in a memorandum in late 2016 called “Rural strategies that work.” The memo noted, “Because of relatively limited public and philanthropic resources, many rural municipalities and community organizations lack the staff and resources needed to apply for or manage federal grants and programs.” Among the memo’s recommendations was to encourage rural communities to partner with organizations more experienced in implementing grants — exactly the kind of sub-recipient for which Highland County is being scrutinized. By the way, the White House Rural Council was comprised of the heads of almost every federal agency — with the notable exception of the DOJ. If Trump wants to take on the DOJ, he might consider directing it to adopt guidelines not only for awarding grants to small rural communities but also for helping them keep and administer them. Otherwise, hopes for crime-fighting progress in these places will continue to be dashed due to the sad case of easily qualifying for federal assistance but not having the internal staffing to use it. Read more here: Mara Casey Tieken: There’s a big part of rural America that everyone’s ignoring Fareed Zakaria: The country is frighteningly polarized. This is why. Catherine Rampell: Why the white working class votes against itself  