The Post reports: At a media briefing on Wednesday, ABC’s Cecilia Vega noted [President] Trump’s sudden “sense of urgency about sending the National Guard to the border” and asked, “Does this have anything to do with a report that the president saw on Fox News?” “I think it has everything to do with protecting the people of this country,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders replied, declining to provide a straight answer. “I don’t think this should come as a surprise. The president’s been talking about securing the border for years, since he started on the campaign trail.” He has, indeed, but he began tweeting furiously on Sunday morning about a caravan of Central Americans bound for the U.S.-Mexico border shortly after Fox News aired a segment about the same subject. We know from repeated instances in which Trump’s tweets echo the inaccurate, rambling discussions on various Fox News programs that this is precisely what drives his thinking — more frequently now than ever as he sheds mature, rational advisers who restrain him. Then out popped Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen. She also demurred on this point, refusing to deny he got his ideas from Fox. (She also claimed in January not to have heard Trump’s “shithole” comment during an immigration meeting with lawmakers.) She also asserted on Wednesday that the military was needed because “we’ve recently seen the numbers of illegal border crossings rise.” opinions  right-turn Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false   Please provide a valid email address. She is probably referring to this from the DHS website: “During the month of February, [U.S. Customs and Border Protection] saw a 2.4 percent increase in individuals apprehended while trying to enter the country illegally in between established ports of entry, and in those presenting themselves for entry, without proper documentation, along our Southwest border. This is typical of the migration patterns in the month of February. Based on historic data, migration patterns have shown an increase in apprehensions and entry attempts in the month of February, excluding FY17, since FY 2012.” (If February is the month where there is an uptick, why do it in April?) As more than one reporter noted, border crossings are at a 46-year low. Remember Trump has been bragging that apprehensions are down. So to recap, neither Nielsen nor Sanders can bring themselves to admit Trump gets his information not from his own administration but from the propagandists on Fox, and Nielsen cannot cite any compelling facts that would justify this stunt. Retiring (and hence candid) Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) tweeted, “The administration’s activation of the National Guard to reinforce our border is an expenditure that does not utilize taxpayer dollars wisely. Mobilization of the National Guard should be used for true national emergencies, not a political imperative.” In a statement, Sen. Tom Udall (D-N.M.) said “the facts simply don’t support what the president is proposing. And the law doesn’t allow him to unilaterally use troops in the United States to enforce domestic laws. Smart border technology and more customs officers would be a much more effective and efficient security investment, that would also benefit our economy and relations with Mexico.” The problem certainly extends beyond immigration. On a day the markets gyrated dramatically in reaction to a burgeoning trade war between the United States and China, newly hired economic adviser Larry Kudlow insisted that “there is no trade war.” No, really. He continued: “My view is, look, I’m a growth guy, I’m a Reagan supply-side growth guy. I think at the end of this whole process, the end of the rainbow, there’s a pot of gold.” Supply-side economics is now leprechaun economics. When a White House spokeswoman, senior adviser or Cabinet secretary cannot admit the truth because the truth is so embarrassing to the White House, it’s time to rethink what you are doing. When the truth only underscores how unhinged, irrational the commander in chief is, might it be time to stop enabling him? After all, it is nuts that he bases national policy on TV flunkies infamous for their disregard of basic journalistic standards. It is nuts that he is proposing to use military forces on the border for absolutely no good reason. It is nuts to start a trade war on the premise we are “down $500B” in the trade deficit. (Thank goodness Kudlow didn’t even attempt to explain that blather.) So how exactly do Sanders, Kudlow and Nielsen justify what they are doing?