More than a dozen companies have pulled advertisements from Laura Ingraham's prime-time TV show after determining that the Fox News Channel host crossed a line last week when she mocked Parkland shooting survivor David Hogg's college rejections. But the episode and others like it underscore the media's struggle to find where, exactly, the line is. Daily Wire Editor Ben Shapiro, whose website published an article that inspired Ingraham's tweet, wrote that her message was “ill-advised” and “gauche.” But Shapiro also reminded readers that he was the same age Hogg is now, 17, when he began writing a syndicated column. “I was smacked about routinely,” Shapiro wrote. “But I was speaking publicly, and that's the way things go.” Somewhere between “gauche” and “that's the way things go” is the answer to a delicate question: What are the rules of engagement with the student survivors of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School massacre, who have stepped forward to become prominent activists on both sides of a national debate about gun rights? Most are children, and the pain of losing 14 schoolmates and three educators is still raw. Such factors arguably entitle them to share whatever is on their minds. Yet they have entered the rough-and-tumble arena of political debate, arguably forfeiting special treatment in the process. CNN faced an early test of how to handle Parkland students one week after the Feb. 14 shooting when a student claimed in multiple interviews — most notably on Tucker Carlson's Fox News show — that he had refused CNN's request that he read a scripted question during a town hall-style TV special. “There is absolutely no truth to this story,” CNN said in a statement at the time. Carlson quickly scolded CNN for “claiming that Colton Haab is lying.” “All of this surprised us because, as you will remember, it was just a few days ago that CNN was declaring that anyone who questioned the integrity of Parkland survivors — and Colton Haab is one of them — is a monster, guilty of the most severe kind of moral crime,” Carlson continued. “And, yet, CNN is doing the very same thing right now — questioning the integrity of a survivor because it suits them. So there is some irony there.” Carlson was drawing a false equivalency. CNN commentators' outrage had been aimed at conspiracy theorists who claimed that outspoken Parkland students were crisis actors. Challenging Haab was hardly the same as suggesting that he was not a real victim. Still, CNN risked appearing insensitive; the network could have ignored Haab. Instead, it produced evidence to refute Haab's claim, and Haab's father ultimately admitted to altering emails in a way that made CNN appear to have scripted a question for the student. The network decided it would not allow Haab to level a false charge simply because he is a teenage survivor of a school shooting. More recently, CNN contributor Joan Walsh, a writer for the Nation magazine, tweeted a snarky message to another Parkland student, Kyle Kashuv: “Good luck handling your stress.” Kashuv, a gun-rights advocate, had called out Walsh for “liking” a tweet by Fred Guttenberg, the father of a girl who was among the 17 people killed at Stoneman Douglas. “Just so everyone knows, @CNN would NEVER take a side,” Kashuv had tweeted, using sarcasm to suggest that Walsh's “like” exposed bias at CNN. Walsh protested. Kashuv's logic — that a single “like” by a single commentator reveals an entire network's “side” in the gun debate — is not exactly fair. But Walsh did not rebut Kashuv's logic; she made a remark about his “stress.” In a separate situation that grows increasingly bizarre, journalist Kurt Eichenwald tweeted multiple criticisms of Kashuv, one of which ended with this declaration: “I have no respect for you.” Eichenwald apologized, saying he had mistaken Kashuv for someone else — a different teenager — whom he meant to insult. Kashuv accepted Eichenwald's apology, but not before calling on advertisers to boycott MSNBC in the same way that some abandoned Ingraham's Fox News show. Eichenwald, however, has not been an MSNBC contributor since February. On Tuesday, Shapiro tweeted an email he received from Eichenwald, in which Eichenwald said he had consulted a psychiatrist who, without meeting Kashuv, concluded that Kashuv “is in desperate need of psychiatric help or support.” In his email signature, Eichenwald attached himself to Vanity Fair magazine. Vanity Fair then issued a statement saying that Eichenwald is not a contributor — to which Eichenwald reacted with apparent surprise. Kashuv tweeted that he was “in pain from laughing too much” and that Eichenwald's email to Shapiro was “hilarious.”