BEIJING — China announced temporary anti-dumping measures Tuesday on U.S. sorghum, potentially hitting U.S. growers and exacerbating the brewing trade war between Beijing and Washington. China’s Ministry of Commerce said that starting Wednesday, Chinese importers of U.S. sorghum, used by the Chinese for animal feed and brewing alcohol, will be required to put down a 178.6 percent deposit in anticipation of anti-dumping tariffs. The deposits could discourage imports of U.S. sorghum, hurting American producers. The news came a day after the United States banned U.S. firms from selling parts to Chinese phone maker ZTE for seven years. The U.S. Commerce Department said ZTE violated an agreement reached after the company was caught shipping U.S. goods to Iran. In a separate development, the Chinese government announced a timeline for lifting ownership limits on foreign automakers. The United States has long demanded better access to the Chinese market. These moves take place against a backdrop of heightened tension between the world’s two largest economies. In recent months, the United States and China have exchanged escalating threats of tariffs worth billions of dollars. [In a U.S.-China trade war, who has more to lose?] Hitting U.S. sorghum exports could hurt American growers — potentially having an impact on farming states that have backed President Trump. The top five sorghum producing states are Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Oklahoma and South Dakota. All but Colorado went for Trump in the 2016 presidential election. Earlier this month, China threatened tariffs against soybeans, pork and other U.S. agricultural products primarily produced in Trump-supporting states. Li Qiang, chief analyst at Shanghai JC Intelligence, an agriculture consultancy, said this year’s crop has already been sold but that the news would “certainly” have an impact on U.S. growers going forward. He said he sees the deposit move as a Chinese response to U.S. investigations into Chinese washing machines and photovoltaic panels. This is “trade frictions,” he said, but not a “trade war.” Chinese officials said the new measure was the result of a months-long investigation that concluded that U.S. sorghum was being dumped on the Chinese market. Likely not coincidentally, U.S. critics often accuse China of dumping its own products, such as aluminum in January. The Chinese Commerce Ministry said U.S. sorghum exports to China rose from 317,000 tons in 2013 to 4.76 million tons in 2017, while the price of the exported sorghum fell 31 percent — harming Chinese farmers. world asia_pacific  Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. “This approach is in line with Chinese law and WTO rules; it aims at correcting unfair trade practices, maintaining normal trade and competition order,” wrote Wang Hejun, director of the ministry’s trade remedy and investigation bureau, in a statement. In China, sorghum is used in animal feed and in the production of a popular type of Chinese liquor.  Yang Liu in Beijing contributed to this report.   Read more: How Trump risked a trade war with China, alienated U.S. allies in under 30 days Trump pushes back on fears of a trade war with China Trade war escalates as China says it will impose tariffs on 128 U.S. exports Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news