Game 2 Columbus Blue Jackets vs. Washington Capitals Series: Columbus leads 1-0 7:30 p.m. ET, Capital One Arena TV: NBCSN • Late first-period goal by Cam Atkinson trims Capitals’ lead to 2-1. (Read More) • The Capitals will try to even the series on Sunday night, and they’ll likely need more five-on-five production to do it. (Read More) • Alex Ovechkin wasn’t happy with his play in Game 1. (Read More) • Washington knows it needs to be better, but the team isn’t overreacting to one playoff loss yet. (Read More) • Comment Section Q&A: Starting at 6:30 p.m., dive into the comments to chat before and during the game with The Post’s Isabelle Khurshudyan. In-game analysis End of Period 1 | Capitals 2, Blue Jackets 1: Washington outshot the Blue Jackets 17-8 through the first period and largely controlled play for the first 20 minutes, but the Capitals only lead by a goal after a late goal by Cam Atkinson. Aside from the opportunistic goal by Atkinson, the Caps looked impressive in the opening period. Sparked by an early goal from fourth-line center Jay Beagle, Washington appeared energized in the aftermath and then padded its lead with Alex Ovechkin’s first goal of the playoffs. The game could have been more lopsided early if not for a huge save at the 14:45 mark on Lars Eller by Columbus netminder Sergei Bobrovsky. The positive spin for Washington is that the Capitals yielded all of three decent scoring chances, by our estimation, in the opening period. The negative spin is that despite what seemed to be a lopsided first, the Caps only lead by one goal. The next goal will be a big one in this series. Atkinson gives Columbus a spark late in first: With the Capitals largely outplaying the Blue Jackets through the first period, the Blue Jackets got a huge goal in the final two minutes by Cam Atkinson while skating four-on-four. A perfect pass out of the Columbus zone by Nick Foligno met Atkinson’s stick right before he hit the Capitals’ blue line. A deke by Atkinson took him to Philipp Grubauer’s left and the goalie left just a puck-sized gap between his left skate and the post. Atkinson sneaked it through to give Columbus a timely boost just before the end of the period. Ovechkin puts Caps up 2-0 on the power play: On the power play following Atkinson’s penalty, Washington captain Alex Ovechkin scored from the left circle, passing up his trademark one-timer for a wrist shot that beat Columbus goalie Sergei Bobrovsky. With a little over six-and-a-half minutes left in the first period, the Caps lead by two, which would be fairly reassuring aside from how Game 1 managed to elude them after leading by the same margin after the first period. Interference erases a would-be Columbus goal: A promising rush by the Blue Jackets’ top line ended with the puck in the back of the Capitals’ net, however the officials deemed that it did so only after Columbus winger Cam Atkinson interfered with Washington goalie Philipp Grubauer. Atkinson lost his feet while driving to the net and skidded into Grubauer, taking the goaltender into the net ahead of the puck. Not only was the goal waved off, but Atkinson was sent to the penalty box for two minutes. Welcome back, Jay Beagle: Well, that should settle some nerves. The Washington fourth-line center missed Game 1 as he dealt with a lingering injury, but his presence was immediately felt in Game 2. Beagle deflected a wrist shot by defenseman Brooks Orpik into the bottom right corner of the net to give the Capitals a 1-0 lead just over two minutes into the game. Given Washington’s playoff history, the longer Washington went without a lead, the more tense the atmosphere would have become. That was a big early goal for the Capitals. Is that anticipation or dread ahead of a must-win game?: The pregame atmosphere at Capital One Arena before Game 1 between Washington and Columbus was subdued on Thursday night, but there were noticeably more fans who showed up for warmups a half hour before Game 2 on Sunday night. The crowd knows what’s at stake after a 4-3 overtime loss in Game 1. Everyone in the building received a towel emblazoned with the phrase “We Are All Caps,” which were already waving in force as the Capitals went back to the locker room before the start of this decisive game. Top pregame story lines Five-on-five: It’s unusual to see so many penalties called in a playoff game, so Washington expects to spend more time in even-strength situations on Sunday night. The Capitals have typically struggled to score in that area, and both teams managed just one five-on-five goal in Game 1. The teams seemed fairly even at even strength on Thursday — Washington had 46 shot attempts to Columbus’s 51, though the Capitals had a slight edge in high-danger chances, according to Natural Stat Trick. “I feel like we didn’t really put pucks to areas where we could get them back,” forward T.J. Oshie said. “I felt like we were dumping pucks in and feel like we didn’t turn too many over, but we were putting them to areas where they had enough time to get it, turn, look up and just break out against us without us being able to use pressure.” Beagle back: The Capitals missed their regular fourth-line center on Thursday night. Beagle had the fourth-best faceoff percentage (58.5) during the regular season, and he’s the only right-handed draw man on Washington’s roster. Without him, the team got crushed on defensive-zone faceoffs in the third period, losing 10 of 11. He also plays the most shorthanded ice time among forwards, so his return will be a boost to a penalty kill that yielded two goals last game. Vrana out: Though rookie Jakub Vrana created the Capitals’ lone five-on-five goal last game, sending a perfect pass across the crease to Devante Smith-Pelly to give Washington a 3-2 lead in the third period, he’ll be a healthy scratch on Sunday night. Vrana scored 13 goals and 14 assists in 73 games this season, and he’s the fastest player on a team that’s struggles with speed in recent years. But with Beagle back in the lineup, Coach Barry Trotz had to choose one forward to push out, and Vrana had a pair of turnovers and less than seven minutes of ice time on Thursday night. “As we sat down with the coaches, we looked at just everything and where we are and what we need, in terms of role and that,” Trotz said. “We felt that this is the lineup we need to go with tonight. I thought V made a really good play on the goal. He didn’t have a lot of ice time, and there’s some things we need to clear up in his game and get him reset. We’ll see where we are next game. Players to watch Alex Ovechkin: The Capitals’ captain was surprisingly quiet last game. He skated 25:42 and finished with eight shot attempts — four were on goal — but it wasn’t the point-per-game Ovechkin who’s usually a physical force in the postseason. With 49 goals this season, he’s scored roughly 19 percent Washington’s offense this year, so the Capitals need him to have a good series if they want to advance. Ovechkin’s line with center Evgeny Kuznetsov was matched mostly against Columbus’s second line with Wennberg, a head-to-head Washington lost at even-strength. With Wennberg out, the Capitals could take advantage of what might be an easier matchup now. “Obviously, I have to be better,” Ovechkin said. “I think our line has to be better, for sure, five-on-five, I mean. I think we played very well on the [power play], but five-on-five, I don’t think we created enough chances. We didn’t play our game, and we understand that and going against these guys, our line has to be more dominant.” Sergei Bobrovsky: Bobrovsky won the Vezina Trophy a year ago as the NHL’s top goaltender, and it was his second time receiving his award. His numbers were good again this season, as he had a .921 save percentage and a 2.42 goals against average in 65 games played. But Bobrovsky has curiously struggled against the Capitals in his career: 7-10-4 with a .900 save percentage and a 3.02 goals against average. He also hasn’t had postseason success, as in 19 games played, he has an .888 save percentage and a 3.57 goals against average. In Game 1 against Washington, Bobrovsky was sharp with 27 saves in the 4-3 overtime win. Pregame prep Immerse yourself in the Capitals’ postseason with The Post’s coverage of the 2018 Stanley Cup Playoffs. Caps know they need to be better in Game 2, but they’re not overreacting After sitting Game 1, YouTube sensation turned NHL player will get his chance against the Capitals Capitals’ Kuznetsov, Blue Jackets’ Panarin shared a rink in Russia and the NHL playoff spotlight No suspensions for Capitals’ Tom Wilson, Blue Jackets’ Josh Anderson The Capitals and Blue Jackets are already bloody. There could be more to come. Barry Svrluga: It’s the Capitals. It’s the playoffs. And ‘easy’ just isn’t in the vocabulary. The Capitals preach quality over quantity when it comes to shots. Here’s what they mean. Barry Svrluga: For Capitals’ Barry Trotz, the future is at stake in these Stanley Cup playoffs Washington’s expected lineup Forwards Alex Ovechkin-Evgeny Kuznetsov-Tom Wilson Andre Burakovsky-Nicklas Backstrom-T.J. Oshie Brett Connolly-Lars Eller-Devante Smith-Pelly Chandler Stephenson-Jay Beagle-Alex Chiasson Scratches: Jakub Vrana, Shane Gersich, Travis Boyd (illness) Defensemen Dmitry Orlov-Matt Niskanen Michal Kempny-John Carlson Brooks Orpik-Jakub Jerabek Scratch: Christian Djoos, Madison Bowey Goaltenders Philipp Grubauer (starter) Braden Holtby Scratch: Pheonix Copley Columbus’s expected lineup Forwards Artemi Panarin-Pierre-Luc Dubois-Cam Atkinson Boone Jenner-Nick Foligno-Thomas Vanek Sonny Milano-Brandon Dubinsky-Josh Anderson Matt Calvert-Mark Letestu-Oliver Bjorkstrand sports  washington-capitals Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Daily newsletter Sports news with a focus on D.C. area teams. Please provide a valid email address. Defensemen Zach Werenski-Seth Jones Ian Cole-David Savard Ryan Murray-Markus Nutivaara Scratches: Markus Hannikainen, Alex Broadhurst, Taylor Chorney, Jack Johnson, Scott Harrington, Dean Kukan, Lukas Sedlak (upper body), Alexander Wennberg (upper body) Goaltenders Sergei Bobrovsky (starter) Joonas Korpisalo