“It’s an attack on what we all stand for.” — President Trump on news thatthe FBI executed a search warranton his lawyer Michael Cohen SCENE: Philadelphia, July 1776. The pungent aroma of low tide and warm privies hung in the humid air. An exhausted Thomas Jefferson looked up from his desk as John Adams stepped through the doorway. “Adams!” he cried. “Just the man I need to see. I’m having a devil of a time summarizing precisely what we stand for.” Jefferson clutched a paper and began to read. “We hold these truths to be self-evident, blah, blah, etc., etc. — okay, here it is: Among these are life, liberty and . . . ” “And?” Adams asked. “Well, it needs to be something about nondisclosure agreements,” Jefferson replied. “But should I limit it specifically to hush money for covering up affairs with porn stars?” “I think that’s what we all stand for,” Adams said. “It doesn’t really sing, though,” the red-haired Virginian fretted. “Also, is it too narrow? What about six-figure payments from Ukrainians? What about close relatives scouring the world for cash to bail out their foolish real estate deals? I mean, we don’t want future generations to think it was all about the porn stars.” “I see the problem,” Adams said, furrowing his lawyerly brow. Then he brightened. “What if we take a more general approach? Life, liberty and the pursuit — ” “Pursuit! Yes, that’s good,” Jefferson cried, scribbling furiously. “ — of gratification.” The pen froze. “That sounds so crass,” Jefferson said. “Of ego?” Adams offered. “How about self-interest?” Jefferson parried. “Life, liberty and the pursuit of self-interest.” “Naked self-interest?” asked the man from Massachusetts. “Sometimes an adjective is nice.” “But there’s the crassness problem again,” said Jefferson. The writing partners fell silent, forlorn. Then a creaking of floorboards announced a visitor, and they looked up to see the wise and rumpled figure of Benjamin Franklin at the door. Motioning him into the room, they quickly explained their dilemma. “Gentlemen, gentlemen!” the old man said with a chuckle when they finished. “Money, sex, deceit, ego: What are all these but the elements of a truly happy life? We stand for happiness, my friends. The pursuit of happiness!” EXEUNT Unlike some past presidents, Donald Trump doesn’t talk a lot about the abstract ideals that bind Americans together. When he speaks of history, he is more interested in what he sees as past failures and weaknesses. Stupid wars. Idiotic trade deals. So I suppose it was nice to hear him appeal, in these divided times, to the notion of common values. But was he moved to extol our American principles by the rise of Big Brother authoritarianism around the world? Or by the hackers and hit men dispatched to Western soil by the gangster government of Russia? Or by the gassing of Syrian children? No, what moved the president to vehemently defend “our country” and “what we all stand for” was the conclusion, by Justice Department officials he himself appointed, ratified by a federal judge, that the president’s personal lawyer likely possessed evidence of criminal acts and could not be trusted to produce them under a subpoena. Trump would like us to believe that this extraordinary step is part of a “witch hunt” by his political enemies. That the special counsel, deputy attorney general and U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York conspired to extract a search warrant from a U.S. District Court judge targeting private communications of an attorney for the most powerful person in America — their boss — with zero justification. “They broke into the office of one of my personal attorneys,” is how the president put it, as though federal agents conducting a lawful search were common burglars. Apply the sniff test: All these people are putting their carefully managed careers on the line over nothing? As Americans try to sort out what’s going on here, they should pay close attention to the statement issued by Michael Cohen’s lawyer after the FBI search. Attorney Stephen M. Ryan said nothing about a witch hunt or break-in. Nor did he maintain that his client has done nothing wrong. Nor did he suggest that the investigation is groundless. His only objection was that Cohen is cooperative and would have complied with a subpoena, making the search of privileged communications unnecessary. As for Trump, he’s having trouble hiring and retaining lawyers willing to say even that much. The president surrendered the privilege of dodging scrutiny when he took the oath of office, if not long before. There are no questions that the American people are not allowed to ask of our leaders, no lies we aren’t allowed to unravel, no authorities we can’t hold accountable. Let the truth come out. We’ll decide for ourselves. It’s a principle we all stand for. Read more from David Von Drehle’s archive. Read more about this topic: Randall D. Eliason: Michael Cohen is in serious legal jeopardy Jennifer Rubin: Trump melts down after Cohen raid — and only hurts himself Paul Waldman: President Trump has never been in more trouble than right now Greg Sargent: Trump just confirmed he might fire Mueller. Republicans might be fine with that. Ruth Marcus: Firing Mueller would only make things worse for Trump