One year ago today, I tweeted the following: I tweeted that during the early months of the Trump administration, and it is worth recalling that political moment. It would be hard to exaggerate the desperate craving many pundits possessed for Donald Trump to settle down into someone resembling a normal, grown-up president. Occasional gestures at maturity, like his joint address to Congress or play-acting like the commander in chief, were seized upon by commentators as examples of Trump growing into the office. That first tweet contained a garden-variety quote from one of Trump’s advisers characterizing him like a toddler. It seemed like a useful response to those wishcasting a mature Donald Trump. It has been a year. From that tweet has grown 320 examples of staffers, outside advisers, Cabinet officers, treaty allies and members of Congress describing Trump like a toddler in news stories. If you don’t want to see them on Twitter, you can read them all on this Spoiler Alerts post. The sources include the Associated Press and Yahoo News. The toddler-like behavior includes demanding extra dessert and needing positive reinforcement, pure oppositional thinking and poor impulse control. I am aware that Trump is not a toddler — he also acts like a hormonal teenager at times and at other times like an old man nostalgic for a bygone era. There are several examples in the thread of behavior that more mature presidents might display from time to time but which from Trump still seem toddler-like. A year of curating the thread has been illuminating. Here is what I’ve learned: 1) For a guy who values loyalty, Trump has the most disloyal coterie ever. My criteria for adding something to the #ToddlerinChief thread has been quite clear. The story had to be sourced to someone with a vested interest in seeing Trump succeed: It doesn’t matter if Democrats or pundits describe the president as having the emotional maturity of a toddler. That’s just partisan politics or conventional wisdom. No, what makes these stories stand out is that these descriptions are coming from fellow Republicans on Capitol Hill in the Cabinet or loyal treaty allies or — most often — from within Trump’s own White House staff. The point is, this is how Trump’s most trusted advisers view Trump. The amount of blabbing to the press has been remarkable. Kudos to the journalists covering Trump, without whom this thread would be impossible. Regardless of staff turnover, there has never been a dry spell in terms of adding to the thread. Trump stresses his need for loyalty to everyone. It is extraordinary how little his staff heeds that request. 2) There was never any calm period. There was a media-driven myth that when John Kelly took over as chief of staff, there was a temporary righting of the ship. For paper flow, maybe that was the case. For Trump’s toddler-like moods, however, there has never been a fallow period. Trump’s immature, impulsive behavior has never slacked off. It has merely been a question of whether the president has pouted or rebelled against Kelly’s strictures. Even when Kelly’s influence was at its strongest, Trump rebelled against it and fomented feuds with members of Congress. 3) Trump is a fundamentally lazy president. Being the president is not an easy job, but Trump barely makes an effort. Like a toddler, he needs a lot of downtime. His attention flags in meetings, and he will talk about himself to sustain interest. Experts and advisers bore him. He complains about that the job is hard. He gets easily triggered by things he sees on television. And he watches a lot of television. When Axios broke the story about Trump’s “executive time,” it was unsurprising. I suspect that Kelly’s efforts at “policy time” have failed. Little wonder that conservatives are bemoaning the squandered opportunities of single-party rule. Trump simply lacks the focus and the stamina to push through a more ambitious policy agenda. 4) Trump sounds like a different kind of toddler now. There has been one way in which Trump’s toddler-like behavior has changed over the past year. Much of the 2017 portion of the thread consisted of senior staffers trying to find ways to constrain the toddler-like facets to Trump’s behavior. In 2018, however, it has been dominated by temper tantrums. Simply put, Trump has gotten angrier and angrier over time because the government does not execute his every whim and he keeps encountering negative press coverage about it. Whatever tolerance he had for being tutored about the job of president has dissipated. In the second year of his presidency, Trump has entered the “no” phase of toddlerdom, which as any parent will tell you can be exhausting. The president has learned that he can reject any adult supervision and insist that he be treated like a big boy. But he still will not get his way as much as a normal president, and the bad press will persist. This means more tantrums. 5) Trump will never stop acting like a toddler. But you knew that already, didn’t you?