Hoping to fend off subscriber gains from rival Apple, Spotify has announced an expanded partnership with Hulu. The streaming companies will offer a combined version of their Spotify Premium and basic ad-supported Hulu services for a total of $12.99. The bundle offers a $5 savings on their stand-alone services, which cost $9.99 and $7.99, respectively. [ Apple Music may finally have the muscle to knock off Spotify ] business technology the-switch     false after3th true The Switch newsletter The day's top stories on the world of tech. Please provide a valid email address. The deal expands on a comparable $4.99 bundle for students, available since the fall. The Spotify-Hulu package will be immediately available to current Spotify Premium customers and to everyone else this summer. Strategically, the bundle helps both companies fend off challenges from digital juggernauts.  Spotify and Hulu together offer more than 30 million catalogue songs and 70,000 library shows and movies, as well as a slate of Hulu original productions. [ ‘Yodeling Walmart Boy’ thrusts 1949 Hank Williams classic to Spotify’s top charts ] The potential for new subscribers from the deal gives Spotify the chance to match subscriber gains made by Apple Music. The latter is growing at a rate of 5 percent to Spotify's 2 percent in the United States, according to reports, and is projected to pass Spotify in total domestic subscribers by summer. Spotify began trading shares earlier this month on the New York Stock Exchange as part of the company's effort to raise capital to compete with Apple. [ After Wall Street debut, Spotify valued at $26.5 billion ] For Hulu, meanwhile, the bundle offers its own incentive for consumers to subscribe to the service. Hulu has been ramping up original programming with shows such as “The Handmaid's Tale” and “The Looming Tower” to compete with popular streaming competitors such as Netflix. An additional offer as part of the Spotify deal allows anyone who currently subscribes to Spotify Premium to sample Hulu for 99 cents per month for three months, providing they have not been Hulu subscribers within the last year.