The inconsistent season had crawled to a close. Inside the Amway Center visitor’s locker room, Washington Wizards backup center Jason Smith picked at plate of chicken thigh meat. As Smith waited for his meal to cool, he salivated over the taste of the playoffs. “This is fun time now,” Smith said. “This is where you step up. This is where you amp up. Our guys need to come together as one and we’ll go out there and take on Toronto.” There was no beverage near his locker, but judging by this unwavering optimism — even after the Wizards (43-39) had closed the regular season with another inexcusable loss and failed to advance higher than the eighth seed — Smith’s glass would have been half full. In fact, buoyancy spread through the locker room ahead of the team’s first-round playoff matchup against the No. 1-seeded Toronto Raptors. [Wizards-Raptors playoffs guide: Everything you need to know for the first round] They split the regular-season series with Toronto, players reasoned, and five-time all-star John Wall didn’t even play a second in those four games. “We haven’t played with John against them,” said Tomas Satoransky, who helped fill the void during Wall’s two-month absence following surgery. “We’re not scared. We respect them. There’s some positive aspects from this season.” Though they’re the underdogs, the Wizards view a matchup with Toronto much more favorably than some of the other teams with lower seeds. And while the Wizards struggled all season with under .500 teams, just as they did on Wednesday in the loss to the Orlando Magic, they knocked off nine playoff-bound opponents after the all-star break. With the postseason, comes a sense of relief. “At least I’m hoping that was our attitude with the last couple of weeks, just the fact that we wanted to get there,” Bradley Beal said. “I’m more than excited. This is where players are made and everybody’s trying to fight for the same goal. It’s always fun and it gets very interesting this time of the year.” The Raptors (59-23) earned the top spot in the conference following the best season in franchise history. Toronto ranked third and fifth, respectively, in offensive and defensive efficiency — the only team in the league to finish within the top five of both categories, according to statistics on NBA.com. Beyond the all-star backcourt of Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan, the Raptors have depth in one of the highest scoring benches in the league (41.4 points per game). Even so, Washington remembers the success it had against Toronto this season. In the four games against the Raptors, the Wizards shot 42.7 percent from three-point range, their second highest average against an opponent. In their best moments, Washington also showed depth. On Feb. 1, eight players scored in double figures when the Wizards defeated Toronto, 122-119. Beal shined brightest as an all-star while seeing Raptors red, posting his highest scoring average (28.8) against an Eastern Conference opponent. For the playoffs, Beal and Wall can finally become whole against Lowry and DeRozan. “We got John back,” said Beal, who viewed the Wizards as being mostly healthy despite injuries to Otto Porter Jr. and Mike Scott. “There’s no excuse for us not to go out there and get the job done.” [Dirk Nowitzki isn’t part of these NBA playoffs, but Dirk clones are everywhere] If given the choice, Smith would have picked Toronto as a playoff opponent. The Wizards could have risen as high as the six-seed if they had beaten Orlando and both the Milwaukee Bucks and Miami Heat had lost in their finales. The scenario didn’t happen — Miami defeated Toronto in overtime and of course, Washington lost to Orlando. But Smith could breathe easier since the team avoided a 3-6 matchup with the Philadelphia 76ers, who enter the playoffs on a 16-game winning streak. “We are looking forward to the matchup with Toronto. I, personally, am a little relieved to not have to go against the hottest team in the league, Philly,” Smith said. “That’s not a team we want to see. We don’t match up well with them. We might have split the season series but they are the hottest team right now and they don’t have Joel Embiid and that’s a little scary.” Free of pressure, the Wizards got the playoff rival they wanted and this weekend they can cast aside their flaws from the regular season. The best team in the East awaits but the Wizards are licking their chops. “We know that we got a tough task ahead of ourselves. We know we can go up there, we squeak out one game, if we win the second game. We come back home, the home crowd’s behind us — that’s where the fun begins,” Smith said. “Like I said, we don’t have the pressure on us. We’re the underdog this year. I like being the underdog.” Read more: Wizards send Mike Scott to NBA concussion protocol, add Ty Lawson to playoff roster Wizards fall in finale, earn No. 8 seed and a playoff date with Raptors sports  washington-wizards Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Daily newsletter Sports news with a focus on D.C. area teams. Please provide a valid email address. 2018 NBA playoff odds: Title favorites? It’s not the Warriors or the Cavs right now. The Golden State Warriors should be on upset alert as NBA Playoffs begin. Seriously. NBA playoff matchups: Who’s playing who in the East and West; complete first-round schedule