I teach a graduate capstone course at American University’s School of International Service. It’s on intelligence analysis, shaping the minds of students who might, one day, work to defend this country’s national security. It’s a point of pride every semester to discuss how important it is that intelligence professionals put aside their personal feelings when drafting reports for senior policymakers. Intelligence professionals provide analysis on topics critical to the defense of the nation — and explicitly not policy advice. As one learns when one first joins the agency, part of the CIA’s ethos is: “We provide information and analysis without institutional or political bias.” So it’s disappointing to see that concept being undermined by the agency itself. This past weekend, the CIA’s official Twitter account retweeted a Washington Examiner opinion piece titled, “The parade of falsehoods about CIA nominee Gina Haspel.” That came on the heels of what the New York Times termed an “influence campaign” by the agency to bolster Haspel’s nomination. Spokesman Ryan Trapani told the Times that “if it appears CIA is being more robust than normal in supporting this nomination, that’s because we are.” Haspel is a longtime agency official and its current deputy director, whom President Trump recently nominated to become the next director. Her nomination has sailed into choppy political waters due to her role over a decade ago in destroying tapes that reportedly showed agency employees engaging in brutal behavior. But nominating an individual for a senior administration position is a fundamentally political endeavor. In this hyperpartisan moment, the CIA and the broader intelligence community must stay clear of the brewing political food fight. Directors and administrations come and go; maintaining the agency’s nonpartisan credibility in the face of fierce political crosswinds is more important. And it’s a virtue that requires constant vigilance, especially in this charged atmosphere. [I went to prison for disclosing the CIA’s torture. Gina Haspel helped cover it up.] Of course, it’s acceptable for current CIA employees to privately hold strong opinions for or against Haspel or any other candidate. It’s also fine for previous agency officials (or anyone else) to have strong policy or partisan opinions — and publicly advocate their positions. Indeed, numerous directors and senior officials who served under both Republican and Democratic administrations have publicly supported Haspel, saying she would make an excellent director. On the other hand, more than 100 retired general and flag officers just signed a letter to the Senate expressing their concerns about her nomination. This is normal, an exercise of the sort of free speech that is vital to the health of this nation. But these individuals are all private citizens speaking in a personal capacity. They do not embody the whole of the institution, and they certainly do not claim that they are doing so. When the institution itself speaks, that’s a different story. It is inappropriate for the official social media mouthpiece of the CIA to speak out in favor or against anything expressly political. The agency’s current director, Mike Pompeo, appears to understand that: The State Department’s Twitter feed is not campaigning for Pompeo to be confirmed as its next secretary. It’s not even clear that the CIA’s official statements are correct in this case. The Examiner article the agency tweeted out claims in the first sentence, “the overwhelming majority of CIA employees” support Haspel’s nomination. Really? What data support this assertion? Was there a poll of current CIA employees that asked this specific question? To support that idea, the Examiner links to another article that quotes three former officials — hardly a representative sample. In any case, a spectrum of opinions probably exists at the CIA about the next director. Anyone stating with confidence that the workforce feels one way or another is engaging in unsupported analysis. Intelligence professionals wouldn’t build a briefing on such a shaky foundation; they shouldn’t be building a public-relations campaign that way, either. [The CIA tailors its briefings so it doesn’t anger Trump. That’s good.] Agency analysts become very uncomfortable when issues emerge that are primarily domestic or political in nature. A Senate confirmation is obviously a domestic political issue. The Hatch Act weighs heavily upon the workforce; employees are often reminded, especially during campaign season, to stay out of politics. Beyond legal consequences, violating that policy could land employees in the news, which many feel is a fate worse than death. So the CIA should take great pains to avoid the bright red line that meanders between providing nonpartisan analysis (on foreign topics!) to the president and the rest of the intelligence community and providing “policy guidance” — especially on anything domestic. Advising the Senate to confirm a nominee is definitely providing policy guidance. The agency must stay true to its mission and its values, no matter who is its director. Gina Haspel might be a superb CIA director. She also might be hamstrung by the events of the recent past. The president nominated her, and the U.S. Senate will now provide advice and consent. It’s not up to U.S. government entities to lobby Congress for — or against — their preferred candidate.