Game 1 Pittsburgh Penguins vs. Washington Capitals Capital One Arena 7 p.m. ET TV: NBCSN Full series schedule Game 2: at Washington, 3 p.m. Sunday Game 3: at Pittsburgh 7:30 p.m. Tuesday Game 4: at Pittsburgh, 7 p.m. Thursday Game 5 (if necessary): at Washington, TBD Game 6 (if necessary): at Pittsburgh, TBD Game 7 (if necessary): at Washington, TBD • Washington needs just 17 seconds to score the first goal. (Read more) • Penguins center Evgeni Malkin will miss Game 1, a huge opportunity for the Capitals. (Read More) • All eyes will be on Washington’s Alex Ovechkin and Pittsburgh’s Sidney Crosby. (Read More) • Relive the top five moments in the rivalry between Ovechkin and Crosby. (Read more) In-game analysis Kuznetsov with a bolt: It took all of 17 seconds for the Capitals to jump out to a 1-0 lead at home. Tom Wilson found Alex Ovechkin on a breakout and the Washington captain flipped a perfect pass to a streaking Evgeny Kuznetsov, who beat Penguins goalie Matt Murray high on his glove side. Fast starts haven’t been a problem for the Capitals this postseason. They scored first in five of their six games against Columbus, but only won three of those games. Ovechkin to Kuznetsov for the Caps lead 17 seconds in pic.twitter.com/DXB4Eb5j3a Your friendly reminder that the Caps are 8-2 in Games 1 against the Penguins. Pittsburgh’s penalty kill could decide this series: Washington has one of the best power-play units in the NHL. The Caps scored on 55 of their 244 opportunities during the regular season (22.5 percent, seventh-best in the league) and have converted on a third of their postseason opportunities (9 for 27) utilizing their now-famous 1-3-1 system, which “creates four triangles to pass around and take one-timer shots” while forcing “the defense to focus on the middle players causing the penalty kill to shrink.” However, the Penguins’ penalty killers are very good at harassing opponents along the half wall, which will cause two problems for Washington: It forces Alex Ovechkin to track down and fire the puck near the blue line, or it prohibits the Caps from setting up in the offensive zone altogether with the possibly of a turnover going the other way. It’s also possible Pittsburgh decides to shadow Ovechkin on the left side when Washington has the man advantage. If that’s the case, it will be up to the rest of the team to create quality chances, which has been an issue. In the four-game regular season series, Evgeny Kuznetsov led the team with seven scoring chances, followed by T.J. Oshie (three) and Lars Eller (two). None of the other skaters for Washington had a power-play scoring chance. Ovechkin was also held without a power-play goal in those four games. Can the Capitals get over the hump?: Fresh off a West Coast road trip and with an off day before the Nats host the Diamondbacks to begin a 10-game homestand on Friday, Nationals Manager and camel enthusiast Dave Martinez was at Capital One Arena for Game 1. There’s some debate about whether Martinez, who led the “Let’s Go Caps!” chant before puck drop, should go by Dave or Davey. If he were a hockey player, there’s no question it would be the latter. Davey Martinez is the "Fan of the Game." He's leading the "Let's Go Caps" chant. This, again: Pittsburgh Penguins star Sidney Crosby was still in shorts and a t-shirt about an hour before Thursday night’s Game 1 against Washington, a baseball cap pulled low over his eyes as he shuffled alone through the hallways of Capital One Arena. His pregame routine was just getting started. Fans donning his uniform were already filing into the visiting arena at that point, lining the glass for warm-ups. It was again clear that Penguins fans will show up in force in Washington for a second-round series for a third consecutive year – but they’ll have to watch Crosby play without his sidekick, injured forward Evgeni Malkin, in Game 1. Washington fans, meanwhile, were greeted Thursday night with the usual towels emblazoned with the phrase “ALL CAPS,” some of which were white and formed a pattern of the city’s monuments in the stands. Waiting for you, @Capitals fans‼️#ALLCAPS #CapsPens pic.twitter.com/8wXkYx5VOF Penguins bring danger: The Capitals will need Braden Holtby to stay locked in. He stepped up big in the relief of Philipp Grubauer during Washington’s first-round series against Columbus, stopping 39 of 44 high-danger chances against, and will face a Penguins team that excels at creating shots in the slot and the crease. Pittsburgh ranked third in the NHL in high-danger chances per 60 minutes at even strength (12.3), and the Penguins have converted 12 of 41 (29 percent) high-danger chances in the playoffs. “He’s phenomenal,” Caps winger Tom Wilson said of Holtby on NBCSN before Thursday’s game. “He’s a leader on and off the ice for us.” Pregame story lines Pittsburgh injuries: Penguins center Evgeni Malkin and speedy winger Carl Hagelin will both miss Thursday’s game with injuries, creating a huge opportunity for the Capitals. With 42 goals and 56 assists this season, Malkin was arguably Pittsburgh’s best player, and his absence will give Washington the advantage in center depth. But the Capitals have had opportunities like this against the Penguins before, and they haven’t capitalized. A year ago, captain Sidney Crosby missed one game because of a concussion, and the Capitals still lost. In the 2016 second-round meeting between the teams, top defenseman Kris Letang was suspended for a game, and Washington didn’t win that game, either. The Capitals can’t afford a 2-0 series hole like they had against Columbus, and that starts with taking advantage of a depleted Penguins team on Thursday night. Malkin was ruled out of Game 1 with apparent leg injury, but he took another step Thursday morning toward potentially playing in Game 2. The center participated in his team’s optional skate at Capital One Arena, less than a week after he was injured in Game 5 of Pittsburgh’s first round series win over Philadelphia. “I think it’s great. I think it’s great for our team. It’s great for [Malkin], obviously, that he’s on the ice and he’s skating. He means he’s that much closer, and our players are aware of that,” Pittsburgh Coach Mike Sullivan said after the practice. “He’s a big part of this team. He’s a difference-maker. He’s not an easy guy to replace. But as we’ve said all along, we’ve got a next man up attitude, and it’s going to provide opportunity for other guys to step up and try to help us win.” Pittsburgh will also be without forward Carl Hagelin, who has a lower body injury and did not make the trip to Washington with the team. Power play: Penalties in this series could be costly for both teams. Though Washington’s shorthanded unit killed 17 straight penalties over the final four games against the Columbus Blue Jackets in the first round, Pittsburgh’s power play is more dangerous. The Penguins had five power-play goals in 25 opportunities in their first-round series, and the unit was the league’s best during the regular season with a 26.2 percentage. The Capitals’ man-advantage is arguably even hotter at the moment; Washington scored a whopping nine power-play goals in six first-round games against Columbus. Goaltending: After Braden Holtby started the postseason on the bench, beat out for the starting job by Philipp Grubauer, he’s earned his place back in net and rebounded from a tough second half of the season with a strong showing in the playoffs, a .932 save percentage and 1.92 goals against average, winning all four of his starts against the Blue Jackets in the first round. But Holtby struggled against Pittsburgh in the postseason a year ago with an .887 save percentage and a 2.57 goals against average. Pittsburgh’s Matt Murray looked shaky at times against the Flyers in the Penguins’ first-round series, and though he was injured during the teams’ meeting a year ago, his postseason résumé is impressive, including two championships already. He has a .926 save percentage and a 1.99 goals against average over his career in the playoffs. “They kind of sat back in the [defensive] zone and kind of drown you out and then wait for you to kind of make a mistake and then it’d be boom, two-on-one, breakaway or something like that,” Holtby said of the Penguins. “They wait for the grade-A chances instead of just ‘hope’ chances, and I think we’ve learned a lot from that.” Players to watch Alex Ovechkin: The Capitals’ captain said he “can’t wait” to play the Penguins, and after he had a monster season with a league-leading 49 goals, his postseason is off to an impressive start: five goals and eight points through Washington’s first six games. That’s already matched his point total from his 13-game playoff run a year ago, when he was playing through knee and hamstring injuries. Over his career, Ovechkin has averaged nearly a point per game in the postseason. Sidney Crosby: As the Penguins scored 4.67 goals per game in their first-round series against the Philadelphia Flyers, Crosby lead the way with six goals and seven assists for 13 points through six games. He’s won the Conn Smythe trophy in back-to-back seasons as the most valuable player over consecutive Stanley Cup championship runs, and Washington will devote its top defensive pairing of Dmitry Orlov and Matt Niskanen to stopping Crosby and his top line, also featuring Jake Guentzel and Patric Hornqvist. Pregame reading Immerse yourself in the Capitals’ postseason with The Post’s coverage of the Stanley Cup playoffs: So they meet again: Five top moments in the Alex Ovechkin-Sidney Crosby rivalry Capitals and Penguins: A landscape of pain and agony For the Capitals to make a leap, Braden Holtby must provide safety in net ‘We’re actually quite excited about it’: Caps want their Cup quest to go through Pens Penguins’ Evgeni Malkin will miss Game 1 against Capitals No doubt: Capitals’ Braden Holtby kept his confidence amid a season of struggles These Penguins fans have more sympathy than hatred for the Capitals Fancy Stats: Three reasons this Capitals-Penguins series will be different An early look at the Penguins-Capitals Stanley Cup playoff clash, part 11 Alex Ovechkin delivers in the clutch, and ‘a huge opportunity’ awaits Capitals-Blue Jackets Game 6: Washington wins series; Pittsburgh, Sidney Crosby next Chandler Stephenson’s breakout moment comes at the perfect time for the Capitals It’s not just you: The Caps really do play an absurd number of overtime playoff games Nicklas Backstrom, the picture of the Capitals’ playoff pain, is now the image of their joy John Carlson continues to build on stellar postseason reputation Washington’s expected lineup Forwards Alex Ovechkin-Evgeny Kuznetsov-Tom Wilson Chandler Stephenson-Nicklas Backstrom-T.J. Oshie Brett Connolly-Lars Eller-Devante Smith-Pelly Jakub Vrana-Jay Beagle-Alex Chiasson Scratches: Andre Burakovsky (upper body), Shane Gersich, Travis Boyd, Brian Pinho, Nathan Walker Defensemen Dmitry Orlov-Matt Niskanen Michal Kempny-John Carlson Brooks Orpik-Christian Djoos Scratches: Jakub Jerabek, Madison Bowey Goaltenders Braden Holtby (starter) Philipp Grubauer Scratch: Pheonix Copley Pittburgh’s expected lineup Forwards Jake Guentzel-Sidney Crosby-Patric Hornqvist Dominik Simon-Riley Sheahan-Phil Kessel Connor Sheary-Derick Brassard-Bryan Rust Zach Aston-Reese-Carter Rowney-Tom Kuhnhackl Defensemen Brian Dumoulin-Kris Letang Olli Maatta-Justin Schultz Jamie Oleksiak-Chad Ruhwedel Scratches: Evgeni Malkin (lower-body injury), Carl Hagelin (upper-body injury), Matt Hunwick Goaltenders Matt Murray (starter) Casey DeSmith