Montgomery County police officers distributed and posted hundreds of fliers in Germantown on Monday and Tuesday, and were planning to pass out more Wednesday, as they search for a man who allegedly tried to kidnap two teenage girls on separate occasions. The man is believed to have tried to kidnap the two girls — one 14 and the other 16 — in separate incidents. Police have put out a composite sketch of the man. [Man sought in two attempted kidnappings of teenage girls in Maryland] One of the incidents happened April 6 around 7:50 p.m. when the 14-year-old girl was walking home after running an errand to a 7-Eleven store, police said. She was walking along the north side of Mateny Road when a man drove up in a vehicle and asked whether she needed a ride. When she said no, he parked, got out of the vehicle and grabbed and pulled on her arm, in what police said was an attempted kidnapping. She broke free and ran home. Police were called. The same man is believed to be involved in two other incidents involving a 16-year-old to whom he offered rides on two different occasions — once was at a bus stop and a second while she was walking to the same store, according to police. On Feb. 16, police said, the 16-year-old girl was at a bus stop around 3:20 p.m. in the 18300 block of Leaman Farm Road. A man drove up in a white vehicle and asked whether she needed a ride. She said no and he drove away. In the second incident, about two weeks later, the 16-year-old girl was walking from her house to the same 7-Eleven store that the other teenage girl had gone too around 9 a.m. when the same man came up to her in a vehicle. He again asked whether she needed a ride. She said no and he drove away. “We believe that the victims gave us credible and consistent information,” said Capt. Paul Starks, a Montgomery police spokesman. Starks said police “believe the suspect lives in the area or frequents the area, and somebody out there knows him.” The man is described as Hispanic and is thought to be in his 30s. He is roughly 5 feet 10 inches tall and weighs about 160 pounds. Anyone with information is asked to call police at 240-773-5400.