AUGUSTA, Ga. — Tiger Woods, clad from head to toe in black, stepped to the tee for his first shot at 10:42 a.m. (Eastern) and, gulp, sent it straight it the gallery on the left side of the first fairway. Woods recovered on his second shot, which rolled up right to the edge of the green. The four-time champion is playing with Englishman Tommy Fleetwood and Australian Marc Leishman. [ Live Masters leaderboard ] Gary and Jack get things going Before 8 a.m. Thursday, the gallery around the first tee at Augusta National Golf Club was five, eight, even 10 deep. And when the two men emerged from the clubhouse — Jack Nicklaus in a red sweater, Gary Player in all black — they rose as if at church, pew after pew after pew. Player, the South African legend who won three Masters, and Nicklaus, the all-time great who has six green jackets among his record 18 major titles, opened the 82nd Masters as honorary starters Thursday morning, each hitting a straight and true tee shot 15 minutes before the tournament began. “It’s always a thrill to come out to the first tee,” Nicklaus said. “It’s always a thrill to be part of the golf tournament.” Fred Ridley, Augusta National’s new chairman, introduced each man — “two of the greatest golfers who have ever lived,” he said — to an adoring crowd. The sign at the tee, which normally lists the players in each group, read “82 Gary Player” above “78 Jack Nicklaus,” indicating each man’s age. Nicklaus’s ball didn’t quite reach Player’s halfway up the hill at the first. “Don’t worry about me outhitting you now,” Player said at a news conference later. “You out-drove me for 50 damn years.” This is the second year Nicklaus and Player performed the duty of opening the Masters since the death of Arnold Palmer. In 2016, the four-time Masters champion joined Nicklaus and Player one final time, though he simply sat in a chair, no longer able to hit the shot. Last year, some six months after Palmer’s death, the chair remained, draped with Palmer’s green jacket. The tournament began soon after with the first of 29 threesomes — Austin Cook, Ted Potter Jr. and Wesley Bryan. Ryan Moore, in the second group of the day, birdied the first two holes to take the earliest of leads, although he later fell back. Woods, the four-time champion playing here for the first time since 2015, begins his quest at 10:42 a.m. in a group just ahead of defending champion Sergio Garcia, who tees off at 10:53 a.m. Other key tee times: Phil Mickelson at 1:27 p.m., Rory McIlroy at 1:38 p.m., Jordan Spieth at 1:49 p.m. and Dustin Johnson at 2 p.m. in the final group. [ Masters preview: At Augusta National this year, an anticipation unlike any other ] How to watch This week isn’t just about Woods. Many of the world’s best players enter the week in strong form. Add in the Woods intrigue, and you’ll want to know how to watch starting Thursday morning, a tricky proposition, since this is the tightly controlled Masters. Still, there are a few options. (All times are Eastern.) Tee times The full list of tee times for Thursday and Friday is here, along with breakdowns of the top groups. Woods, one of the betting favorites to win his fifth Masters, will be followed on the tee at 10:53 by Sergio Garcia, the 2017 champion, and his group of Justin Thomas and 20-year-old amateur and Clemson sophomore Doc Redman. Phil Mickelson, Rickie Fowler and Matt Kuchar will tee off at 1:27 p.m. A trio of international stars in Adam Scott, Rory McIlroy and Jon Rahm will tee off at 1:38 p.m. Jordan Spieth’s group will tee off at 1:49 p.m. World No. 1 Dustin Johnson is in the day’s final group, teeing off at 2 p.m.; he’ll play with Justin Rose and Rafael Cabrera-Bello. The weather report Temperatures were in the in the low 40s at the start Thursday, and you could see everyone’s breath as Nicklaus and Player got things started with their honorary tee shots. But things should warm up to about 70 before all is said and done in the first round, with sunny skies and winds 5 to 10 mph. It will remain sunny and should be even warmer Friday, though the winds will pick up a bit. Saturday’s third round could get a little dicey with rain and even more wind in the forecast, especially in the morning. Whether it will be enough to halt play remains to be seen, but it very well could. The wet weather should help soften Augusta’s notoriously tricky greens. The skies will clear a bit for Sunday’s final round, though it will be cool with highs in the mid-60s. Favorites The Post’s Barry Svrluga identifies five players who could win this weekend, including Rory McIlroy, Phil Mickelson, Jordan Spieth, Bubba Watson, and yes, Woods. Who could win but won’t? Jason Day heads that list. Read the rest of Svrluga’s breakdown here. The Post’s Neil Greenberg, meantime, gives the highest win probabilities to Johnson, Justin Thomas and Garcia. His explanation is here. Josh Planos analyzes which six holes may decide Woods’s fate. You might want to wait until the end of the first round to make your choice. As Kyle Porter of CBS Sports points out, the last 12 Masters winners have been in the top 10 after the first 18 holes. The last one outside the top 10? Woods, who was tied for 30th after the first round in 2005 before storming back to win his fourth and most recent Green Jacket. Dilly Dilly Although a report earlier this week indicated that Masters officials were threatening to expel fans who yelled anything from a list of banned phrases, like “Dilly Dilly” or (we hope) “get in the hole,” but a Yahoo investigation reveals that there is no list. Which means that those phrases, and perennial favorites like “mashed potatoes” and “Baba Booey” still might randomly echo across Augusta. “Yelling ‘Get in the hole’ from the tee box of a par five might get a hole punched in your badge — two punches and you’re gone — or it might get you heaved out of the course with no warning. Same with a group chant,” the report states. A fist pump is a better way to celebrate Tony Finau scored a hole-in-one during Wednesday’s Par-3 contest and celebrated so darn hard that he dislocated his left ankle. And popped it into place. Read all about it and how Jack Nicklaus’s grandson scored a hole-in-one that reduced his proud grandpa to tears. According to the Golf Channel’s Todd Lewis, Finau had an MRI exam on his ankle Thursday morning and it revealed no significant damage other than a high-ankle sprain. He plans to gut it out and play his round Thursday. The champions dinner was tasty Spanish golfer Sergio Garcia was the winner of last year’s tournament, which meant that he selected the menu for the champions dinner. He went with a pretty delicious sounding menu that included Arroz Caldono de Bogavante (described as traditional Spanish lobster rice): Boren and Bonesteel contributed to this report from Washington. More Masters coverage from The Post: Svrluga: When Tiger and Phil play a practice round, it’s anything but meaningless sports  sports Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Daily newsletter Sports news with a focus on D.C. area teams. Please provide a valid email address. For 10 bucks, you can eat like a king at the Masters Augusta National to host a women’s amateur event in 2019 Tiger and Phil teamed up for nine holes of golf. (They won.)