The Boston Celtics host the Milwaukee Bucks for Game 7, while the Warriors and Pelicans kick off the second-round in Oakland. Follow along here for the latest analysis and commentary from The Post’s NBA reporter Tim Bontemps, and ask him questions in the comments section. Catch up with Friday night’s results here. Schedule | Pregame reading | Comments section Q&A | Curry status   Giannis Antetokounmpo has not had that he was hoping for in the first Game 7 of his career. The Bucks star forward is just 2-for-7 and has seven points in 18 minutes in the first half. More importantly, he was called for three fouls. Boston, meanwhile, is now without one of its key players in Jaylen Brown, who limped back to the locker room. Still, the Celtics have to be feeling good about things at halftime, as they go into the break leading 50-42. Al Horford had a terrific half for the Celtics, scoring 14 points on 7-for-10 shooting to go with seven rebounds, while Jayson Tatum has nine points, but has cooled off considerably after a hot start. Eric Bledsoe, meanwhile, leads the Bucks with 12 points, and Khris Middleton hit a couple late shots to salvage his first half and finish with nine. The Bucks are going to need a lot more from both Antetokounmpo and Middleton in the second half if they hope to win this one.   Warriors guard Stephen Curry won’t play in Game 1 of Golden State’s Western Conference semifinal series against the New Orleans Pelicans. Curry practiced both Thursday and Friday, then scrimmaged 5-on-5 after practice. He also participated in shoot around Saturday morning. But Warriors Coach Steve Kerr decided to hold him out at least two more days until Game 2 here in Oakland. At that point, Kerr said there could be a minutes limit on Curry, and that he also could come off the bench. “Everything is a possibility,” Kerr said. Saturday marks five weeks since Curry suffered an MCL sprain when JaVale McGee accidentally fell into his leg during a game. Now right in the middle of the time frame when he could come back, it seems likely that the latest return date for the star guard — barring a setback — will be Game 3 next Friday in New Orleans.   The Celtics closed the first quarter with an 20-2 run, with 14 of those points coming after Tyler Zeller checked in for Thon Maker with 4:04 remaining. That allowed them to take a 30-17 lead after one. That 13-point advantage is massive in a series where neither team has showed much propensity for offense. Factor in Milwaukee is the road team, and their chances of coming back are even more difficult. The one player on the Bucks who has been terrible most of the series, Eric Bledsoe, actually finished the first as their leading scorer with six points. But he also committed a dumb foul and picked up a technical when he shoved Shane Larkin in the back on a drive to the basket after Larkin had blown by him. Giannis Antetokounmpo and Khris Middleton went a combined 1-for-7 and each committed a turnover, the kind of start Milwaukee couldn’t handle from one of them, let alone both. Jayson Tatum has nine points to lead the Celtics, while Aron Baynes — who hit a buzzer-beating jumper to end the quarter — has six on perfect 3-for-3 shooting off the bench.   In a series where neither team has consistently found much scoring, the Celtics have gotten an early boost from Jayson Tatum. The rookie forward has nine early points for Boston, including five straight to push the Celtics back into the lead late in the first quarter. Between Tatum, Jaylen Brown and Terry Rozier, the Celtics likely need at least two of them to get going consistently to score enough to win. Early on, Tatum is fulfilling his end of the bargain.   One early boost to Milwaukee’s chances: the play of Thon Maker. Maker changed the tenor of the series starting in Game 3, as his ability to both protect the rim and space the floor has given Milwaukee an element at both ends it otherwise doesn’t have. Maker already has a three and a tip-dunk early in this game. Milwaukee could use him to continue being able to provide offense — and stay out of foul trouble.   The Game 7 stage can often be the launchpad that sends a great player to another level of stardom. The Milwaukee Bucks will be hoping their Game 7 against the Boston Celtics will serve as that for Giannis Antetokounmpo. Road teams in such matchups generally lose about 80 percent of the time. But those road teams also generally don’t have the best player in the series, which the Greek Freak clearly is. After the home teams evenly split the first six games of the series, it’s going to take a herculean effort from the Bucks to advance to face the Philadelphia 76ers in the second round. It’s a golden opportunity for Antetokounmpo to have one of his first true NBA moments. We’ll see if he can pull it off.   OAKLAND, Calif. — The New Orleans Pelicans are decided underdogs in their Western Conference semifinal series against the Golden State Warriors. Just don’t tell that to Anthony Davis. “We know that we can beat them,” the Pelicans’ superstar big man said after practice here Friday afternoon. “We’ve done it in the regular season. And we’ve been in every game that we lost [against them] so we know that we’re a good matchup against these guys and we’ve got a lot of confidence in ourselves. “Anytime they score, we know they’re going score and make shots, it’s tough, we just got to get the ball out fast and push it down the floor and try to [go] quicker.” Actually beating the Warriors will be easier said than done. Davis is right that New Orleans beat Golden State in the regular season, but that’s virtually irrelevant. Golden State won the first three games, all by early December and featuring DeMarcus Cousins playing a prominent role for the Pelicans. New Orleans then won the fourth and final meeting three weeks ago, but the Pelicans were playing desperately while trying to lock up a playoff spot, while Golden State was playing out the string. The Warriors also didn’t have Stephen Curry, who looks like he might play in Game 1 Saturday night. Curry practiced both Thursday and Friday, and went through a 5-on-5 scrimmage after practice Friday afternoon. He then spoke to the media for the first time in weeks, and deemed himself “50-50” to play in the opening game of the series. Saturday, Curry went through shoot around and remains questionable. It seems more likely than not that he plays, but also likely that the Warriors will continue to start Andre Iguodala at point guard for the next game or two, at least, with Curry coming off the bench. Curry will likely have a minutes limit, allowing Golden State to ease him back into action. Even in limited minutes, Curry’s presence would be a boost to the Warriors, who will face a far stiffer test against the Pelicans, coming off an impressive first-round sweep of the Portland Trail Blazers, than they did in their five-game yawn-fest against the San Antonio Spurs. Davis will be a big reason. He’s made a case this season to be considered the best player in the league, reinforced with an dominant performance against the Trail Blazers that saw him average 33 points, 11.8 rebounds, 1.8 steals, 2.8 blocks and shoot 57.6 percent from the field across the four games. So what do the Pelicans expect from Davis as he plays in the second round for the first time in his career? “What happened last series,” said Jrue Holiday, who had his own breakout series against Portland.   Saturday’s schedule:   Additional reading: Friday’s loss is likely just the beginning of a painful summer for the Oklahoma City Thunder In wake of LeBron James no-call, Indianapolis mayor outlaws goaltending The Miami Heat bet big on Hassan Whiteside. It appears they made a mistake. Now what? The one-and-done rule is on the way out — because of NBA money, not NCAA morals Retirement? Dwyane Wade says there’s ‘no breaking news here’ It feels like the end of an era for the San Antonio Spurs The Sixers are flying high in the playoffs and, thanks to Joel Embiid, so is Kevin Hart Why is there a snake on the Philadelphia 76ers’ court? After first-round sweep, Blazers’ next steps could include trading away their stars ‘All my best games I was medicated’: Matt Barnes on his game-day use of marijuana Adam Silver: One of the WNBA’s problems is that not enough young women pay attention to it ‘Get off her back’: LeBron James defends TNT reporter who asked him about Erin Popovich’s death NBA, Twitch reach deal on 2K League streaming rights   Comment Q&A Hop into the comments section below to chat with The Post’s Tim Bontemps about all of your NBA questions.