MANAGUA, Nicaragua — Nicaragua’s government says it is willing to negotiate over controversial changes to social security that have prompted protests and deadly clashes this past week. Vice President Rosario Murillo, who is also first lady and the government’s spokeswoman, said nine people have been killed in the unrest. She called the protests “cruel.” Dozens have been injured or arrested in the chaos in cities across the Central American country. Murillo said late Friday that President Daniel Ortega’s government is responding to calls for dialogue from Roman Catholic Cardinal Leopoldo Brenes and the private business sector. She said that the policy moves “are not concluded proposals” and that “we are open to discussing them.” The violence, which began Wednesday, brought strong reaction from human rights advocates. “The Nicaraguan state must fulfill its international obligations to ensure people can freely exercise their rights to freedom of expression and freedom of peaceful gathering and association,” the U.N. human rights office said in a statement. The Organization of American States issued a statement of concern and called on demonstrators to protest peacefully. The clashes, pitting protesters opposed to the reforms against riot police and pro-government groups such as the Sandinista Youth, have rocked the capital, Managua, and a half-dozen other cities. Some demonstrators carried heavy sticks or threw rocks as they faced off against armored officers with batons and riot shields. One agent was wounded in the leg by a makeshift mortar Friday in the capital. Security forces have seized vehicles carrying provisions for the protesters, and at one point police invaded an area near Managua’s Metropolitan Cathedral where the Roman Catholic Church had been collecting donations. In response, protesters burned one of the famous “tree of life” sculptures that Ortega’s government has erected in the city. A prominent umbrella organization for Nicaraguan chambers of commerce condemned the violence, called for a peaceful march Monday and urged authorities to respect freedom of expression. Murillo earlier alleged that violent acts by government supporters were provoked by those opposing the social security changes, who were in turn being “manipulated” by political interests seeking to take advantage of the crisis. “These moments are tragic and painful for all our people, for the entire country,” Murillo said Friday. “And responsibility for these crimes of hate and for the atmosphere and waters that have been stirred up and clouded will fall upon those who treacherously agitate and encourage without showing their face.” The government said at least 28 police officers have been wounded, but it has not released numbers of protesters hurt or arrested. “This is the release of a series of troubles that have been building among the people,” sociologist and analyst Melvin Sotelo said, “and social security is the drop that overflowed the glass.” The government reforms increase income and payroll taxes and make changes to pensions to try to shore up Nicaragua’s troubled social security system. — Associated Press