BEIJING – President Xi Jinping pledged Tuesday to significantly lower import tariffs for vehicles, ease restrictions on foreign investment in the auto industry and generally work harder to import more goods that China needs, to reduce trade imbalances. The pledges were not new but could be seen as an attempt by China to defuse a deepening conflict over trade with the United States. Only a few hours before, President Trump had tweeted about the China’s unfair 25 percent tariffs on foreign autos. Speaking at the Boao Economic Forum on the southern Chinese island of Hainan, Xi pledged to “significantly broaden market access” for foreign companies, including a pledge to ease foreign-equity restrictions in the automobile industry “as soon as possible” and “significantly lower import tariffs” for vehicles. “China does not seek a trade surplus,” Xi said. “We have a genuine desire to increase imports and achieve greater balance of international payments under the current account.” Xi’s speech had been billed by state media as important reaffirmation of China’s commitment to open markets and globalization, although it contained no significant new announcements, experts said. [The winners in Trump’s trade war? This Indiana family. The losers? The same family.] China made a similar promise to cut auto tariffs in November when Trump visited Beijing, and again at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January. U.S. officials have reacted with skepticism until now, saying it was time for action, not empty promises. Nevertheless, the fact that Xi made the commitment in a keynote speech at an important event, billed as China’s version of Davos, gives the promise more weight. Christopher Balding, an associate professor of business and economics at the HSBC Business School in Shenzhen said Xi’s speech was largely a “re-rerun of previous speeches and previous commitments.” “I suspect this is not going to go down as well with our friends in Washington as some people are hoping,” he said. Balding said it remained challenging to find a way out of the mounting trade conflict that left Trump and Xi, “both men with very large egos,” looking and feeling that they had not backed down to the other. But Rajiv Biswas, Asia-Pacific economist at IHS Markit, said Xi’s speech had “set a very positive tone for lowering U.S.-China trade tensions,” citing what he called some “extremely constructive signals” to reduce trade and investment barriers, strengthen intellectual property rights and boost imports. China has consistently promised to open its markets since Xi took office, but has largely failed to follow through on those promises. Xi has also made it clear that his vision for a “socialist market economy” is one where the Communist Party and state remain firmly in control, while protecting and subsidising key industries. That approach, a fundamental bone of contention with Washington, is not about to change, experts said. Nevertheless financial markets in Asia appeared to be moderately encouraged, with Japan’s main Nikkei share index up 0.75 percent in afternoon trade, and Shanghai’s share index around 0.6 percent higher. [How Trump risked a trade war with China and alienated U.S. allies in less than 30 days] To set up factories in China, foreign car companies are forced into 50-50 joint ventures with Chinese companies, and many fear their valuable intellectual property will eventually find its way into Chinese cars. Vehicles imported from abroad face a 25 percent import tariff. “When a car is sent to the United States from China, there is a Tariff to be paid of 2 1/2%,” Trump tweeted Monday. “When a car is sent to China from the United States, there is a Tariff to be paid of 25%. Does that sound like free or fair trade. No, it sounds like STUPID TRADE - going on for years!” Xi also reiterated a long-standing promise to reduce restrictions on foreign investment in financial services, including banking, securities and insurance, and to strengthen protection for intellectual property, another of the U.S. administration’s main complaints. He also announced that an International Import Expo would be held in Shanghai in November “to open up the Chinese market.” “I wish to emphasize that with regards to all those initiatives of opening up that I have just announced we have every intention to translate them into reality sooner rather than later,” he said. “We want the outcomes of our opening up efforts to deliver benefits as soon as possible to all enterprises and people in China and around the world,” he added. Xi also reiterated a call for developed nations —in other words the United States —to ease restrictions on high-tech exports to China. That’s not about to happen, with Washington citing national security concerns that such technologies would find their way into China’s defense industry. More generally, Xi Jinping tried to portray China as a defender of globalization and openness, just as he did at Davos last year, ignoring the fact that many sectors of China’s economy continue to restrict foreign trade and investment, and that he presides over the largest system of Internet censorship in the world. [Trump pushes back on fears of a trade war with China] “We live at a time with an overwhelming trend toward openness and connectivity, human history shows that openness leads to progress while seclusion leaves one behind,” Xi said, adding that the process of “reform and opening” of China’s economy had been the driving force for decades of progress, innovation and development in his country. “I wish to make it clear to you all that China’s door of opening up will not be closed and will only open even wider,” he said. While he made no direct mention of the trade war with the United States, he said a “zero-sum” and “Cold War” mentality look even more out of place than ever in the modern world. Read more Tensions rise over Taiwan Strait as U.S. and China harden positions   Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news