Minutes before kickoff Friday night, before a player ran onto the field or the ball was rolled out, there was a moment of silence at Washington-Lee High. “A General has fallen,” the public address announcer had said, and the players and fans reacted accordingly. John Giandoni had been a part of the Generals’ soccer program from 2009 to 2014, starting as a volunteer assistant and working his way up to junior varsity coach. He cut back on his coaching when he became a father, but he still checked in with Washington-Lee Coach Jimmy Carrasquillo, sending him an ecstatic text after the team won a state title in 2016. Giandoni died three weeks ago at age 40, found in his Arlington home. Police are treating the case as a homicide. “This game was dedicated to him because we knew we had to do something,” Carrasquillo said. “What he meant to us, it was the least we could do.” Giandoni’s parents, his two siblings and his son, Jack, stood at midfield before the game, receiving flowers and handshakes from the home team. They watched the game from the top of the bleachers, cheering on the program that Giandoni had been so passionate about. “We all played soccer growing up, and it played a big part in our growth and development,” said Will Giandoni, John’s brother. “He wanted to provide that to other people. He had a passion for soccer, and this was the perfect school — two blocks away.” The game turned out to be a taut affair, a physical back-and-forth battle between the No. 5 Generals and No. 6 South Lakes that ended 1-1. After a quiet, scoreless first half, Washington-Lee (3-1-1) junior midfielder Joe Core brought the game to life with a goal. Minutes later, chippy play boiled over into a small altercation, and a South Lakes player was sent off. The Seahawks played the final 25 minutes with 10 men. Despite the disadvantage, South Lakes (3-0-1) continued to push forward with a skilled attack that showed why the Seahawks have yet to lose. With five minutes remaining, senior midfielder Bardia Kimiavi finally broke through, finding space and then slipping past the goalkeeper before scoring with his left foot. sports   Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. In overtime, Washington-Lee looked like the aggressor and South Lakes hung back, playing tight defense to secure the draw. Core had a good look at a second goal, but it sailed just above the bar. The Generals’ defense changed the tenor of the game with a pair of key plays. In the first half, South Lakes’ Kahlil Dover made a strong run up the left side and beat the goalkeeper. Junior defender James Core jumped up and deflected the ball, keeping it out of the net. In the second half, with the keeper beaten for a second time, it was junior Tanner Smuthkochorn who swooped in to make the stop. “I was celebrating those stops like they were goals,” Joe Core said. “They helped us hold on.” More high school sports: Meet the Winter All-Met honorees for 2018 Boys’ soccer top 10: Oakton leads the way Girls’ soccer top 10: Briar Woods is winning with ‘swag’