MEXICO CITY — President Trump wrote over the weekend that Mexico was doing “very little, if not NOTHING” to stop migrants from crossing its southern border. It was part of a two-day tweetstorm in which he expressed alarm about “caravans” of Central Americans heading to the United States. But in fact, Mexico already detains and deports tens of thousands of Central American migrants each year — often long before they can reach the border with the United States. The country also staffs immigration checkpoints in southern states such as Chiapas, Tabasco and Oaxaca, which are so aggressive that indigenous people living in the region complain they have to prove to Mexican immigration officers that they are in fact citizens. Mexico deported 16,278 people during the first two months of 2018; 97 percent of them were Central Americans, according to the Washington Office on Latin America, a human rights group. Trump’s tweets apparently referred to a story published by BuzzFeed — and pounced upon by conservative media — about a caravan of Central American migrants that is winding its way through Mexico and hopes to reach the U.S. border. The caravan of approximately 1,300 migrants, which is currently hundreds of miles south of Mexico City, is trying to call attention to the difficult situation faced by migrants, according to organizers. “Mexico has the absolute power to not let these large ‘Caravans’ of people enter their country,” Trump tweeted Monday, adding that Mexican border laws “work” and U.S. ones do not. That followed a Sunday tweet: Mexico increased its immigration enforcement in 2014, when it enacted a “Southern Border Plan” in response to a flood of unaccompanied Central American children who were transiting the country and arriving in the United States. The plan boosted patrols near Mexico’s long-neglected border with Guatemala and also aimed to improve railway infrastructure to prevent migrants from stealing rides on a northbound freight train known as “The Beast.” Mexico’s National Immigration Institute has not commented on the caravan or Trump’s allegations. Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray responded indirectly Sunday, tweeting: On Monday, Mexico’s interior minister, Alfonso Navarrete, said he and U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen had spoken. “We agreed to analyze the best ways to attend to the flows of migrants in accordance with the laws of each country,” Navarrete tweeted. The Wall Street Journal on Monday quoted a senior Mexican immigration official as saying that authorities hadn’t stopped the caravan because its participants either had sought asylum or had humanitarian visas — so they were not in the country illegally. “This isn’t a massive influx of irregular migrants,” the official added. “They can remain in the country and move around while their immigration situation is worked out.” Caravans of migrants moving through Mexico usually attempt to raise awareness of the plight of migrants in a country where indifference toward them is common and warm welcomes are scarce. Jorge Andrade, spokesman for the Colectivo Ustedes Somos Nosotros, an organization for migrant shelters in Mexico, said caravan participants sometimes end up receiving humanitarian visas, which allow short stays in the country. An organizer of the caravan, Alex Mensing, said that it “didn’t bring anyone” to the United States but “accompanied people who have decided to flee.” He called the caravan “a mass nonviolent collective action” that was organized to “raise the political cost of repression” by immigration officials. The Central Americans currently attempting to traverse Mexico mostly stream out of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, where gang violence is rife and the murder rates have ranked among the highest in the hemisphere. Recent elections in Honduras were marred by irregularities and accusations of fraud, and a subsequent crackdown on protesters has been condemned as heavy-handed. An increasing number of Central American migrants are staying put in Mexico, where they are applying for asylum in record numbers. “#Mexico is struggling to deal with a vast influx of asylum seekers fleeing gang violence or political instability. In 2017 refugee petitions went up 66%; a 326% increase from 2015,” tweeted the Washington Office on Latin America, also known as WOLA. “These people are fleeing their homes and seeking protection for a reason.” Not everyone offering assistance to the migrants transiting Mexico welcomed the caravan. Andrade’s network of humanitarian shelters, which offer migrants modest places to sleep and rest en route, disavowed the caravan, saying such methods of moving migrants didn’t offer better security. “These kinds of caravans are utilized by people that are not migrants, who pass themselves off as migrants and try to extort other participants in the caravan,” said Alberto Xicoténcatl, director of a migrant shelter in Saltillo, in northern Mexico. Andrade said members of his organization tried to accompany a caravan of migrants in 2014, but it became “infiltrated” by organized crime. “‘Polleros [smugglers] and guides and all of this criminal apparatus that traffics in people, they utilize [the caravans] for their benefit,” he said. Adding to the difficulties, he said, caravans arriving at the U.S. border cause problems in those communities as an influx of migrants taxes scarce resources in the shelters there. “They cannot cross the border,” Andrade said. “Some will request asylum in the United States, but the majority will do something else … and this implies insecurity for them,” due to the presence of kidnapping gangs in the border region. Trump’s tweets once again threatened the ongoing renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement deal and came as campaigns kicked off for Mexico’s July 1 presidential elections. Mexico has preferred to keep issues such as security and immigration out of the NAFTA renegotiations, “unlike Trump … who puts everything on the table,” said Brenda Estefan, a former security attache at the Mexican Embassy in Washington.