The Senate Foreign Relations Committee has set a vote for Monday on Mike Pompeo’s nomination as President Trump’s secretary of state. Pompeo, who has made headlines in recent days for his secret trip to North Korea over Easter weekend, won the panel’s support last year to become CIA director but faces longer odds this time. To secure the committee’s blessing, Pompeo will need at least one vote from the 10 Democrats on the 21-member panel. That’s because the day after Pompeo’s nomination was announced, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) formally stated his opposition to Pompeo’s bid. [Pompeo’s North Korea trip set the table for Trump’s planned meeting with Kim Jong Un] The committee can still send Pompeo’s nomination to the Senate floor for a vote with an unfavorable recommendation if only a minority of panel members support it. But Pompeo risks becoming the first secretary of state nominee in almost a century not to gain a favorable committee recommendation before advancing to the floor. In recent days, a number of Democrats have spoken out against his nomination. On Wednesday, Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), who supported Pompeo to become CIA director, said he would not back him for a role with “a much broader policy portfolio.” “In that portfolio, Mr. Pompeo’s record as a member of Congress is alarming,” Whitehouse said. “He denied human beings’ role in driving climate change. He vilified people based on their faith, and attacked women’s essential reproductive rights. And he pushed reckless military intervention over diplomacy. His extreme views on these issues — and many more — make me unable to support his nomination as America’s top diplomat.” Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), who voted to confirm Pompeo as CIA director, said in a statement Tuesday that she could not do the same for his bid to be the nation’s top diplomat, citing concerns about his positions on gay rights, Muslim Americans and women’s reproductive rights. Shaheen joined Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), who also backed Pompeo’s nomination as CIA director, but announced his opposition to Pompeo’s secretary of state bid over issues that include Pompeo’s hawkish views in the past. Kaine said that Pompeo “would exacerbate President Trump’s weaknesses rather than uphold our diplomatic legacy” — particularly when it came to the use of force in approaching Iran. Meanwhile, another Republican committee member, Sen. Jeff Flake (Ariz.), remains undecided about Pompeo’s nomination, a stance that has frustrated fellow Republicans and the White House. Pompeo was grilled last week by every Democratic member of the committee, as well as Paul, during his 5½-hour confirmation hearing. Many senators questioned whether he would stand up to the president on matters such as ripping up the Iran deal or launching talks with North Korea — or whether he would simply approve the president’s predelictions to stay in his good graces. Separately Thursday, the Senate Intelligence Committee announced it would hold a confirmation hearing on May 9 for Gina Haspel, Trump’s nominee to take over for Pompeo as director of the CIA. Haspel is currently deputy director. Haspel’s nomination is facing opposition from some senators who have questioned her role in destroying videotapes of brutal interrogations conducted by the agency. In conversations with senators and their staff ahead of Haspel’s confirmation hearing, she has acknowledged that she drafted a cable in 2005 ordering CIA officers to destroy tapes of the interrogation of two suspected terrorists. The interrogation sessions included waterboarding, which is widely considered a form of torture. Haspel has said that she wrote the cable at the instruction of her boss, who was then in charge of the CIA’s clandestine operations and ultimately gave the order to destroy the tapes.    Read more at PowerPost