SAN FRANCISCO —  The Washington Nationals are convinced that when the breaks start going their way, when their hard-hit balls find holes and mistakes don’t blow up in their face, they will start consistently winning games until their injured key players return. Then, they maintain, look out. For a few minutes against the San Francisco Giants on Tuesday night, after Michael A. Taylor delivered the huge knock they had been seeking, it looked like it would finally go right for the Nationals again. The game was tied and Tanner Roark had recovered from a rocky first few innings. It stirred the depleted club. But the momentum was fleeting, and reversed in the sixth inning, when Mac Williamson crushed Roark’s 101st pitch for the eventual game-winning home run in Washington’s 4-3 loss. It was the fourth straight defeat for the Nationals (10-14). It dropped them to 1-6 in one-run games and to 6 ½ games behind the first-place New York Mets in the National League East. They close a nine-game road trip at AT&T Park on Wednesday afternoon. [Gio Gonzalez felt he was given a quick hook. But he and the skip are okay now] “We’re going to get out of this,” Nationals Manager Dave Martinez said. “I’m telling you. We’re going to get out of this. I just want these guys to understand that, one, we ain’t going to put our heads down. two, we’re going to keep battling and things are going to go our way.” After Monday’s loss, Martinez lamented his club’s misfortune in the batter’s box. He pointed to the number of hard-hit balls they accumulated on a night when they managed two runs on five hits. It was the latest data point in a trend that has been troubling the Nationals since they tormented opposing pitchers the first four games of the season. The Nationals entered Tuesday with the third-lowest batting average in the majors on hard-hit balls and the fourth-lowest hard-hit rate with runners on base. Their .275 overall BABIP (batting average on balls in play) was tied for 27th while their .252 BABIP with runners in scoring position ranked 26th. The result: the Nationals were leaving 7.57 runners on base per game entering Tuesday, tied for the third-highest mark in baseball. On Monday, the Nationals went 0 for 7 with runners in scoring position and left eight on base. They were anxiously waiting for a hit in a significant situation. [Box score: Giants 4, Nationals 3] One finally came on Tuesday, and the fortune flipped when least expected. The Nationals couldn’t solve Ty Blach for 3 ⅔ innings, and it wasn’t due to bad luck. Blach, who checks all the boxes needed to register as a “crafty lefty,” was silencing the Nationals by precisely spotting and mixing his less-than-overwhelming arsenal. Then, with two outs in the fourth inning, he walked Ryan Zimmerman. It seemed like simply a blip in the moment. But then Moises Sierra slipped a single through the right side. Two on. Suddenly, the Nationals had cracked the door open. That brought up Taylor, one of the few Nationals hitting the ball with some pop recently, and he lined a 1-1 fastball over the right-field wall for a three-run home run to tie the game. The Nationals’ dugout erupted as if it were releasing the angst that had been building. The home run was an outlier on at least two levels. First, Taylor is a dead-pull hitter and that was just the seventh of his 43 career home runs to go to right field. Second, the 336-foot poke was just the second home run the Nationals have hit with a runner on base since April 8. They had collected seven in the first nine games of the season. “I mean, oppo home run from Michael, that was huge,” Martinez said. “It picked us up. We needed that. Things were going.” But Taylor’s home run wasn’t enough to win the game. The Nationals needed more, and they didn’t get more. Their best chance to tack on another run came in the fifth and eighth innings. In the fifth, Bryce Harper stepped to the plate with two on and two out. But Harper didn’t look comfortable against Blach in his first two at-bats and didn’t look it again in the third. He grounded out to end the inning and the threat. [Nationals place Shawn Kelley on disabled list, call up Rafael Bautista, Adrian Sanchez] In the eighth, Howie Kendrick socked a two-out double off Sam Dyson, a rally igniter that simultaneously killed it. With first base open, the Giants elected to issue Harper his third intentional walk and league-leading 30th overall this season to challenge Zimmerman. Dyson’s first pitch was a fastball over the plate and Zimmerman swung into a 6-4-3 inning-ending double play. “Pitch right down the middle,” Zimmerman said. “Hit it hard, just hit it on the ground and obviously credit the shortstop. I got a pitch I could do damage with, and I just didn’t do it.” The Nationals were trailing by then because the sixth inning stung them for the third straight day. Roark wasn’t sharp early and spotted the Giants a 3-0 lead in the third inning when he surrendered a two-run home run to Brandon Belt — the same Giant who hit the tie-breaking home run off Roark in the 18th inning of Game 2 of the 2014 NLDS. But he recovered to retire six of seven hitters in the fourth and fifth innings. So, a night after pulling Gio Gonzalez after walking the leadoff batter in the sixth inning with his 94th pitch — a decision that proved wrong instantly — Martinez sent Roark out for the sixth at 95 pitches. He retired the first two batters in the sixth. He seemed untouchable. Then Williamson pounced on the first pitch, a mistake curveball, and launched it to straightaway center field. “I felt good,” Roark said. “Just relaxing and keep attacking. I knew Williamson was swinging first pitch. [That was] just a bad curveball.” It was Williamson’s second first-pitch home run in the sixth inning in as many nights. Monday’s was a 464-foot blast that gave the Giants some necessary insurance. Tuesday’s won them the game, and left the Nationals wondering, again, when the breaks will tilt their way.