This post will continually update. Welcome to our coverage of the 2018 White House Correspondents’ Association dinner. The president may not be attending this year’s event, which honors journalists and awards scholarships to students. It’s not a surprise: This is the second year in a row that Trump has opted to skip the dinner and host a campaign rally at the same time instead. Despite his absence, the evening was filled with unambiguous reminders of who is in the White House. Take the presence of Omarosa Manigault Newman, famous for sandwiching her stint as a White House aide in the Trump administration with two notorious reality show appearances, and her friendly conversation with Michael Avenatti, Stormy Daniels’s attorney. Even without the big-name celebrities that have attended the dinner in previous years, Washington knows how to pack an event. The pre-parties were crowded. Selfie-chasers who would have once tracked down movie stars were now chasing after Chris Matthews. [Under Trump, ‘Nerd Prom’ weekend is all nerd and no prom] The awards and speeches begin at about 9:30 p.m., and we will continue to update this post as the evening continues. As Omarosa made her way from the red carpet and up the escalators to the Atlantic Media pre-party, her “gown attendant “ followed her, carrying her train and fluffing her hair along the way. Wearing a wide-brimmed hat, glittery sneakers and Chanel interlocking earrings, the attendant, Carlton Marshall, continued carrying the train of Omarosa’s dress as she walked around the cocktail party posing for selfies. “I’m her personal makeup artist,” Marshall said. “But I’m her everything.” Omarosa stopped to talk with Avenatti. “What’s up, boo?” she asked. She told him he was “great on ‘The View’” and that she’d text him tomorrow. When asked about her next big move, Omarosa was coy and said she’s “always” working on something, but for now she was spending time with her husband, a full-time pastor in Jacksonville because “Jesus is the reason for the season.” The couple were guests of the Boston Globe. Chef José Andrés was also at the Atlantic party, posing for pictures while pointing at people. When a reporter noted that the pointed finger pose was a Trump move, Andrés said, “I was doing it before him!” Talking with comedian Kathy Griffin at the 2018 White House Correspondent’s Dinner. #WHCD pic.twitter.com/LzCJduN5Bz By 6:45 p.m., the pre-parties were already getting pretty crowded. Even without the big-name celebrities that have attended the dinner in previous years, Washington knows how to pack these events. Other sightings near the red carpet included Comedy Central’s Jordan Klepper, CNN’s Jake Tapper, MSNBC’s Chris Matthews, Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway and Kathy Griffin. Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) was spotted shaking hands with security guards on her way to the receptions. [Comedy’s next big star Michelle Wolf doesn’t want to make a point — she just wants to make you laugh] Former press secretary Sean Spicer mingled in the crowd, looking very happy in his post-White House days. He whipped out his phone and showed a Post reporter a cover photo for his new book, “The Briefing,” which comes out in July. He said he’s been traveling around the world on the speaker circuit and has a talk show “in the works.” “None of this was in the realm of possibility” before the White House, Spicer said. Other attendees patrolled for faces they recognized in the crowd for the only reason anybody does that these days: to turn the moment into social-media content. Case in point, this overheard exchange: “Look, it’s Chris Matthews!” “I’m not a big Chris Matthews fan.” “But it will make a good Instagram!” A gong sounded just before 7:30 p.m. It was time for the dinnergoers to head to the ballroom. The awards and speeches will begin at about 9:30 p.m. At the dinner, singer Ty Herndon sang “God Bless America.” Herndon, a guest of Fox News at this year’s dinner, is one of the first male country music stars to come out as gay. Meanwhile, Trump spent Saturday night at an event that he actually enjoys — a campaign rally for himself, among a crowd of supporters. “You may have heard that I was invited to another event tonight, the White House correspondents’ dinner,” Trump said, as the Michigan audience booed at the mention of the press. “But I’d much rather be in Washington, Michigan, than in Washington, D.C., right now.” The president also compared the size of his crowd to that he imagined to be at the dinner he was skipping. “By the way, you wanna see a lot of people? Go outside. We could have filled this place up probably 5 or 6 times.” Later in his speech, Trump eviscerated the media for being “very, very dishonest people.” “In the old days when the newspapers used to write, they’d put names down. Today they say ‘sources have said that President Trump’ — sources? They never say who the source is. They don’t have sources,” he said. “The sources don’t exist in many cases … these are very dishonest people.” (Journalists actually abide by strict rules when using anonymous sources.) “Fake news,” he added, as his audience cheered. “Very dishonest.” Trump brought up the dinner again later in his speech. “By the way, is this better than that phony Washington White House correspondents’ dinner? Is this more fun?” he said. “I could be up there tonight smiling, like, I love when they’re hitting you, shot after shot. These people, they hate your guts … and you know, you gotta smile. And if you don’t smile they’ll say, ‘He was terrible. He couldn’t take it.’ And if you do smile, they’ll say, ‘What was he smiling about?!’ You know, there’s no win.” Emily Heil and Helena Andrews-Dyer contributed to this report.