A chandelier can draw the eye, serve as a statement piece and set the mood for your entryway, foyer, bedroom or dining room. “I love [their] romance and whimsy,” says author and interior designer Windsor Smith. Whether it has a sleek and simple design or showstopping crystals, a chandelier adds elegance to a space and bathes it in the right light. “Modern downlights tend to push light on top of people, which is not our best look,” Smith explains. “Chandeliers are great because they bring the lighting down and soften the entire look of the space.” Smith, who runs the Los Angeles-based design firm Windsor Smith Home, encourages designers to use more than one chandelier per room “if the scale and space is right.” “There is something very elegant about splitting a room into three parts — one large chandelier in the middle and two smaller on each end,” Smith says. To provide a warm glow, she adds, try using traditional incandescent bulbs in rosy hues. Here are Smith’s top picks. SPLURGE: Williamsburg Tucker chandelier by Robert Abbey in deep patina bronze (lumens.com ), left. SAVE: Minimalist iron-ring eight-light chandelier (shadesoflight.com ). SPLURGE: Cyan Design chrome Treviso five-light, one-tier chandelier (lightingshowplace.com ), left. SAVE: Venetian-style all-crystal mini chandelier (houzz.com ). SPLURGE: Bernadette three-light Capiz chandelier in natural (horchow.com ), left. SAVE: Round Capiz chandelier in white (westelm.com ). SPLURGE: Full Moon suspension light  (ylighting.com ), left. SAVE: Small Random Light by Bertjan Pot for Moooi in white (dwr.com ). SPLURGE: Anemone circular LED pendant light by Vermont Modern (ylighting.com ), left. SAVE: Elan chrome anemone pendant (lightingdirect.com ). More from Lifestyle: 10 mirrors to hang in your home if you want art and function Save hundreds on your next armchair with these designer picks Not another neutral: Break the rules with these colorful couches This ’80s decorating style is making a comeback Add easy elegance to your living room with these millennial pink items