Lawmakers were sharply divided in their assessment of President Trump’s Friday night airstrikes in Syria, but both supporters and critics alike warned him that bombardment could not be a substitute for a strategic plan for Syria. Trump ordered the airstrikes at a time when Congress is preparing to tackle a new authorization for use of military force against extremist and terrorist groups operating in places like Syria — a debate that begins in earnest later this month, when the Senate Foreign Relations Committee takes up a proposed replacement for existing war authorizations, now almost two decades old. While that authorization will not address the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria, several lawmakers who have advocated a restrained approach to authorizing military operations excoriated the Trump administration for not first seeking congressional consent before firing cruise missiles on targets in Damascus and the area around Homs. “President Trump’s decision to launch airstrikes against the Syrian government without Congress’ approval is illegal and — absent a broader strategy — it’s reckless,” said Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), one of Congress’s strongest advocates for a new authorization of force. “Today it’s a strike on Syria — what’s going to stop him from bombing Iran or North Korea next?” But critics were not alone in encouraging Trump to take a more holistic and contemplative approach to settling the Syrian conflict than simply launching a volley of missiles — and then resuming plans to extricate itself from the conflict. “To succeed in the long run, we need a comprehensive strategy for Syria and the entire region,” Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain (R-Ariz.) said in a statement. “Airstrikes disconnected from a broader strategy may be necessary, but they alone will not achieve U.S. objectives in the Middle East.” [U.S. launches missile strikes in Syria] GOP leaders cheered the strikes for being “well-considered,” in the estimation of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), and for their “justness,” in the words of House Armed Services Committee chairman Mac Thornberry (R-Tex.) But Democratic leaders were noticeably divided, as House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) backed those calling on Trump to seek an authorization from Congress, while Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) offered support for the “pinpointed, limited action” before warning the Trump administration must do its utmost to avoid getting more involved in the Syrian war. Pelosi, Schumer, McConnell, and House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) all received phone calls about the strikes from Vice President Pence, who left the opening ceremony of the Summit of the Americas in Lima, Peru, to inform them of the operation before it began. But only some of the leaders of the congressional armed services, intelligence, and foreign affairs committees received adequate notification, according to aides familiar with their communications. House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Edward R. Royce (R-Calif.) did not receive any advance notice of the strikes, and Senate Intelligence Committee Vice Chairman Mark R. Warner (D-Va.) did not speak to anyone in the administration in advance of the president’s announcement. House Intelligence Committee’s ranking Democratic member, Rep. Adam B. Schiff (D-Calif.), said he received a briefing from CIA Director Mike Pompeo earlier Friday about the intelligence community’s conclusion that Assad was responsible for the chemical attack on a suburb of Damascus last weekend, but offered no indication he’d be specifically notified of an imminent operation, while a spokesman for Senate Armed Services Committee’s top Demcocrat said that he received a call from Defense Secretary Jim Mattis once the strikes were already underway. Some aides expressed frustration with the administration for not notifying more leading lawmakers as part of their rollout, while others chalked it up to the challenges of warning several senators and members in a limited window of time. powerpost       false endOfArticle true The Daily 202 newsletter PowerPost's must-read morning briefing for decision-makers. Please provide a valid email address. Still others focused their ire on leaders in Congress for not forcing Trump to involve the legislative branch in his decision-making. “These offensive strikes against Syria are unconstitutional, illegal, and reckless,” said Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.), calling on the next House speaker to “reclaim congressional war powers” and charging Ryan — who announced his retirement this week —with “completely abdicated one of his most important responsibilities.” Read more at PowerPost