KABUL — A pair of back-to-back bombings shocked Afghanistan’s battered capital of Kabul on Monday when it targeted the people normally tasked with covering these daily attacks. A suicide bomber on a motorcycle blew himself up and then just 20 minutes later, a bomber on foot joined a crowd of journalists covering the event and detonated himself as well. Of the 25 people killed, nine of them were journalists. As the body of Nawroz Ali Rajabi was pulled from a steel morgue drawer and lowered into a pasteboard coffin, a cluster of men — brothers, cousins, colleagues — gasped and covered their faces. Several peered down at his burned and bruised face, then turned away in horror. One gently zipped up the black body bag, another nailed the coffin shut. “Look at what President Ghani has done,” shrieked a cousin named Ali Khan, 30, red-eyed and shaking with anger. “The sons of generals and officials drive in armored cars, but we poor people are being killed.” Rajabi, a reporter for the TV One news channel, was among the journalists killed in the deadliest single attack on journalists in Afghanistan since the overthrow of the Taliban regime in 2001. A 10th reporter from BBC’s Afghan service, also died later Monday in an unrelated attack in Khost province. The blasts took place in the high-security zone which houses the U.S. and other foreign embassies, NATO headquarters and Afghan government offices. Among the dead journalists were the chief photographer for Agence France Press, Shah Marai, Rajabi and seven others from local TV and radio stations. Police said the attacker was carrying a press pass and a camera. [Afghanistan is building up its commando force to fight the Taliban] The heavy casualties from both blasts, which also wounded 45 people, was an unprecedented blow to Afghan journalism that left Kabul’s war-hardened press corps reeling in shock and grief. Dozens of Afghan journalists have died covering violence and conflict in recent years, but this was the highest single toll in memory. “This is a black day for our country, and for every journalist in Afghanistan,” said Fawad Nasiri, 25, a journalist at Radio Azadi, who was waiting outside an operating room at Wazir Akbar Khan hospital Monday morning, where one of his colleagues was undergoing surgery. “We lost a lot of friends today. I’m sorry, I cannot say any more.” The twin bombings came just over a week after a massive suicide attack that killed 55 people in the Afghan capital, when a bomber on foot detonated himself outside a building where a long line of people were waiting to obtain voter ID cards. That attack was claimed by the Islamic State. Several hours after the Monday bombings, the regional branch of the Islamic State posted a statement online saying that two of its “martyrs”had carried out an attack on the Afghan intelligence services in Kabul. Both the Taliban and Islamic State groups have often used the tactic of quick-succession bombings to increase the amount of harm. In southern Kandahar province Monday, meanwhile, NATO officials said 11 children were killed when a convoy of Romanian troops was struck by a car bomb near a religious school in a densely populated area. They said 16 people were wounded, including 8 Romanian troops, Afghan civilians and policemen. Monday’s attacks also came days after Taliban insurgents announced the launch of their annual spring offensive, dimming hopes for peace talks recently proposed by the government. The group said it would target Afghan and foreign forces but would avoid civilian casualties. The Islamic State group, however, has made targeting civilians a key part of its strategy. All morning, ambulances rushed back and forth from the blast to several hospitals, and sirens wailed nonstop. At Wazir Akbar Khan hospital, officials said they had received 14 corpses and treated 31 people for injuries, including blast burns and shrapnel wounds. Night-duty doctors and nurses remained at the hospital, and emergency surgeries continued all morning. In one ward, several semiconscious, severely wounded police officers were lying in a row of beds, surrounded by anxious relatives and medical staff. One man groaned repeatedly. Another had a bandaged face and breathing tube. A nurse said he was in a coma and that it was not certain whether he would survive. A younger man burst into the room, peered down at his face and began weeping. Outside the hospital, families looked anxiously at lists of blast patients posted on the walls, and some donated blood to help their injured relatives. One was an English teacher named Amanullah. He said his nephew, a doctor at a children’s hospital, had just finished the night shift and passed by the blast site on his way home. He was badly injured by shrapnel and underwent three hours of surgery. “This is very bad for the Afghan people. So many innocent people died,” said Amanullah, 30. “These are terrorists. They just want to destroy our country. Muslim people would never do this. We just want peace with no blasts, no killing, no kidnappings. It may be impossible, but we have to try.” Among the community of Afghan journalists in Kabul, long accustomed to covering violence and facing death during several decades of war and turmoil, the loss of so many colleagues in one deadly event was shattering. A manager at TV One was among those who gathered at the hospital morgue Monday, waiting silently for Rajabi’s remains to be released to their custody for burial. “On the one hand, we have to cover the news. On the other hand, our people need to be protected,” said the manager, who asked not to be named. He said one other station employee, a cameraman, had also died in the blast. “We lost two of our best employees,” he said. “We will honor them, and we will help support their families, but this hurts our souls.” Sayed Salahuddin contributed to this report. Read more: The Marines’ new mission in Afghanistan: Taking back territory previously won How the Islamic State got a foothold in Afghanistan  Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news