When the Washington Nationals placed Adam Eaton on the 10-day disabled list Wednesday, the rationale was they would rather have Eaton miss 10 or so days to the bone bruise in his left ankle than risk losing him for longer. The Nationals don’t publicize timetables, but both Eaton and Nationals Manager Dave Martinez have indicated they don’t believe the left fielder will miss substantial time. Martinez was particularly encouraged Thursday. “I saw him today and he’s getting his workouts in,” Martinez said before the Nationals’ 5-1 loss to the Rockies. “And we miss him on the field, but it’s actually pretty good that he’s able to continue to do his strengthening for his knees. But he’ll be back. I think he’ll be back sooner than we think. He’s going really good right now.” Martinez said Eaton is being kept off his left foot, but that could change “in the next day or two.” Eaton severely sprained the ankle last April on the same play in which he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee. The knee, Eaton has insisted, is fine. The ankle is the problem, a problem that resurfaced during Washington’s home opener April 5. With Eaton on the disabled list, the Nationals will start Brian Goodwin in left field and perhaps lead him off, too. But Goodwin wasn’t in Thursday’s starting lineup after hurting his wrist diving for a ball on Wednesday. Martinez said he was available off the bench, but Matt Adams, a Iumbering natural first baseman, got his 19th career start in left field. He started his first 18 last year with the Cardinals and Braves. Adams’s inexperience didn’t cost Washington on Thursday, though DJ LeMahieu capitalized on his lack of throwing strength by tagging up to third base on a routine fly ball to left field in the ninth inning. He was left stranded there. “I don’t mind it,” Martinez said before the game. “If you look at Gio’s record, he’s a groundball guy so I thought this would be a perfect opportunity to put him out there in left field. He hit a home run yesterday. He’s been swinging the bat well. So give him a shot and let him go out there and play.” The left-handed-hitting Adams was in the lineup for his bat against right-hander Chad Bettis. He posted the first of Washington’s four hits – a dribbler through to the left side of the infield to beat the shift. It was Adams’s fifth hit of the season, but his first single. He previously had two doubles and two home runs. With left-hander Kyle Freeland slated to start for the Rockies on Friday, there’s a chance Moises Sierra, a right-handed hitter, will make his first start as a National. Sierra, who was called up Wednesday, notched his first hit with Washington on Thursday – a pinch-hit, two-out double in the fifth inning. He had gone 0 for 3 with two strikeouts in his debut Wednesday. Whoever is in left field, the Nationals will miss Eaton’s presence atop the batting order. In eight games, he’s 10 for 29 and has more walks (three) than strikeouts (two). They’ll have to manage without him for at least a little while. Read more on the Nationals: Nationals agree to minor league deal with veteran slugger Mark Reynolds With oblique not a problem, Matt Wieters makes his return to Nationals lineup Bryce Harper’s viral hair dryer video was a stunt to sell hair-care products Was A.J. Cole’s bounce-back start enough to hold off Jeremy Hellickson?