President Trump on Friday hailed the “historic meeting” between the leaders of North and South Korea and said “good things are happening” — but sounded a cautionary note about the thaw in relations between the two nations. “After a furious year of missile launches and Nuclear testing, a historic meeting between North and South Korea is now taking place,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “Good things are happening, but only time will tell!” Minutes later, Trump offered a rosier assessment — writing in all capital letters, “KOREAN WAR TO END!” — and seemingly taking some credit for the possible pact announced by North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in. “The United States, and all of its GREAT people, should be very proud of what is now taking place in Korea!” the president wrote. A three-page declaration by Kim and Moon stated goals including “complete denuclearization” on the Korean Peninsula and work toward a peace treaty that would formally end the Korean War. The fighting was halted in 1953 with an armistice agreement, which technically did not close out the state of war. The phrase “complete denuclearization” could be far more problematic. The United States regularly sends nuclear-capable aircraft and ships to the South during military exercises, and it was unclear whether the North could insist on fundamental changes in the U.S.-South Korea military structure. Trump’s tweets came as Kim and Moon wrapped up a landmark summit that could set the groundwork for possible talks between Trump and the North’s leader. Trump has announced plans to meet Kim possibly as early as next month, although no date or location has been set. Last week, Trump voiced optimism about the potential face-to-face talks with Kim, but he vowed to cancel the meeting or walk out if there are signs it “is not going to be fruitful.” He added that he intends to remain “flexible” as a negotiator, a strategy he credited for laying the groundwork for a possible U.S.-North Korea summit, which would mark the first time a sitting U.S. president has met with a North Korean leader. Such a meeting would be particularly striking given the exchange of rhetoric between Trump and Kim over the past year. The two leaders traded belligerent statements, with Trump mocking Kim as “Little Rocket Man” and pledging to ­“totally destroy” North Korea. Kim, in turn, called the ­American ­president a “dotard” and a “lunatic.”   