Artists who are successful during their own lifetimes often have a moment: a period when they are widely feted. John Corigliano has had several moments. Winning Grammy Awards for his first symphony, the “AIDS symphony,” was one (or two; the piece took Grammys in 1991 and 1997); triumphing at the Metropolitan Opera with the world premiere of his “Ghosts of Versailles” in 1991 was another. Corigliano is now being feted for a different reason: He turned 80 in February. But a birthday concert of his music at the Wolf Trap Barns on Sunday afternoon showed a body of work with plenty of reason to celebrate. The concert was the end of Wolf Trap’s chamber music season, which was imaginatively curated, this year by the violinist Lara St. John. It was a worthy tribute that didn’t stint on the talent. One highlight was the radiant young cellist Sterling Elliott, an undergraduate at Juilliard with fingers so long his left hand seemed to have a life of its own as it stalked up and down the fingerboard, now singing out gorgeously, now letting go with animation in “Phantasmagoria,” a piece based on themes from “The Ghosts of Versailles,” while the pianist Martin Kennedy supported him darkly in the background. [An opera revisited, on a new scale.] St. John herself was dynamic as ever in “STOMP,” a piece Corigliano wrote for the Tchaikovsky Competition in 2010 that actually requires the soloist to stamp on the floor, and the early sonata that the composer wrote in 1963 for his father, who was for many years the concertmaster of the New York Philharmonic, and who, Corigliano said in his engaging remarks from the stage, didn’t want his son to be a composer. (The sonata eventually changed his mind.) St. John, an energetic player, makes music-making seem approachable (at one point she used the skirt of her dress to wipe off the chin rest of her violin), but her presentation is so busy that sometimes the music’s line is slightly obscured by all the energy, and the playing can grow monochromatic in its unrelenting intensity. Still, she was more than up to the challenges of this virtuosic concerto, which was also one of the happiest works on the program. [A violinist and her iguana.] The soprano Melinda Whittington did an excellent job in four selections from what to me is Corigliano’s most problematic piece, the cycle “Mr. Tambourine Man: Poems of Bob Dylan.” Corigliano was ahead of his time in treating Dylan’s texts as pure poetry years before Dylan won the Nobel Prize for literature, but the songs are so well-known that Corigliano’s music strains against what the ear expects, and turns some of them into veritable parodies of the stuffiness of classical music (like a lugubrious and melodramatic version of “Blowin’ in the Wind”). Only “Forever Young” has some of the freshness, beauty, and sense of inevitability to truly hold its own. The evening concluded with the long string quartet Corigliano wrote in 1995 for the final season of the Cleveland Quartet. Like “Phantasmagoria” and “Mr. Tambourine Man,” this piece is imbued with a sense of nostalgia and farewell: the quartet defaults, in all five moments, to a quiet elegiac whisper. It’s also very difficult to play, with a fugue that requires the four instrumentalists to play the same music at four different speeds. The PUBLIQuartet, an able and adventurous young group of four distinct looks, played it beautifully, though I felt the piece could have stood to be a little shorter. And the audience moved to the lobby to share birthday cake with the composer.