Danny Farquhar, the Chicago White Sox reliever who collapsed in the dugout during a game Friday night after suffering a brain hemorrhage, had an additional procedure to relieve swelling over the weekend and, according to a team official, is “in the fight of his life right now.” Farquhar, who began vomiting in the sixth inning and then collapsed from the ruptured aneurysm, was taken by ambulance to Rush University Medical Center in Chicago. “He’s a fighter, and he’s in the fight of his life right now,’’ Chicago White Sox vice president Ken Williams told USA Today. “They had to do another surgery, cracking his skull open and putting a clamp on it. My God, this certainly shows the fragility of life and how we take every day for granted. And it can change in a heartbeat. Literally.” The team released an update on the 31-year-old Monday afternoon, saying he is “progressing well following a successful surgery Saturday to address the aneurysm.” Farquhar, the team said, “has use of his extremities, is responding appropriately to questions and commands and is speaking to doctors and his family.” The Chicago White Sox released the following update on the condition of White Sox pitcher Danny Farquhar, currently a patient at RUSH University Medical Center after suffering a brain hemorrhage and ruptured aneurysm during the team’s game in Chicago Friday night: pic.twitter.com/OwPxGXGJav Sohail Shahpar, Farquhar’s longtime agent and friend, described the family as shaken but cautiously optimistic, according to USA Today. The team’s statement said Farquhar remains in the neurosurgical ICU at RUSH and is expected to stay there “for the next few weeks.” He is “in critical, but neurologically stable” condition, according to the statement. “Let the medical staff do what they can do and then, at the appropriate time, everybody will let us know when it’s okay to go ahead and reach out and go see him,” Manager Rick Renteria said, via the Chicago Tribune. Meanwhile, his anxious teammates wait. “Besides him being a great teammate and part of this brotherhood, I have to be respectful of his family,” pitcher Carson Fulmer told the Tribune. “He’s a brother, he’s one of our teammates, and we’re all here for him and his family.” The White Sox were playing the Houston Astros on Friday night; Williams said Farquhar’s wife, Alexandria, and his mother were at the game. “By the time they got to the clubhouse, he was already in an ambulance heading to the hospital,” Williams said. “Can you imagine what they went through and are still going through?’’ Farquhar and his wife are the parents of three children, ages 7 months to 6 years. Players around MLB have been sending messages of support to the pitcher and his family. Danny Farquhar. Praying for you so hard. Heart hurts for you & you family. Please take a second if you can to pray for my friend Danny Farquhar he needs our prayer! #PrayForDanny More from The Post: McKayla Maroney says she spoke of abuse to USA Gymnastics coach in 2011 Ex-Michigan player apologizes for tweets threatening Jim Harbaugh A grieving Gregg Popovich sat out Spurs’ Game 4 win over Warriors NBA playoffs: Updates and analysis from The Post’s Tim Bontemps CBS announcer Jay Feely says posing with a gun in daughter’s prom photo was ‘a joke’