These days, nudity seems to be a requirement for prestige television shows. Try to make it through 15 minutes of “Westworld,” “Billions” or “Game of Thrones,” the granddaddy of gratuitous nudity, without seeing bare buttocks or breasts. Even the pilot for “Breaking Bad,” a basic cable show, featured a completely unnecessary topless woman hanging out of a window. But in 1993, when “NYPD Blue” debuted on ABC, the television landscape was far more modest. Co-creators David Milch and Steven Bochco, who died on Sunday at 74 after a battle with leukemia, forever changed that landscape by injecting their gritty cop drama with more nudity than a locker room. The show trafficked in sex scenes and exposed flesh so often that it eventually caught the eye of the Federal Communications Commission, leading to a drawn-out legal battle. Nudity and eroticism were baked into “NYPD Blue” from its pilot, which featured two fellow cops — John Kelly (David Caruso) and Janice Licalsi (Amy Brenneman) — stripping down and having sex with each other, though strategic shadows covered their bodies. Critic Bryan Curtis wrote that the show was “one of network television’s great erotic experiments.” That wasn’t by accident. Bochco told GQ in 2014, “I wanted to have adults in realistic sexual situations. You had to see breasts from the side. You had to see asses.” So, Bocho continued, he and then-ABC president Bob Iger “sat in his office like two little boys, drawing dirty pictures: naked men and women” and wondered “How much of this can you see? How much of that?” without incurring the wrath of the Federal Communications Commission. [ Steven Bochco: The old cop shows left us satisfied. ‘Hill Street Blues’ left us heartbroken. ] The scene that brought action from the FCC wasn’t exactly sexual. The offending shots, which appeared in the 2003 episode aptly titled “Nude Awakening,” included about seven seconds of a nude Det. Connie McDowell (Charlotte Ross) just standing there. The setup: Ross’s character, standing in the bathroom and preparing for a shower, takes off her robe. A boy, about 8 years old, then accidentally walks in on her, prompting an awkward coming-of-age moment. Strategic camera angles obscure most of Ross’s naked body —  e.g. the camera is placed behind the boy’s head in one quick cut, so his silhouette obscures her front — but she is shown nude from behind, exposing her bare butt to ABC’s national audience. The scene ends with the boy, shocked look on his face, sheepishly apologizing. Ross’s character, also embarrassed, tells him, “It’s okay.” The FCC didn’t think it was okay, not in the slightest. Content it deemed indecent had to run between 1o p.m. and 6 a.m., when children were less likely to be watching TV. The show ran at different times in different time zones, meaning in some cities it ran at 9 p.m. instead of 10 p.m. After an investigation that concluded in 2008, the FCC proposed an indecency fine against ABC of $27,000 for each of its 52 affiliate stations that aired the episode before 10 p.m. The grand total: $1.4 million. “We find that the programming at issue is within the scope of our indecency definition because it depicts sexual organs and excretory organs — specifically an adult woman’s buttocks,” the FCC wrote in its findings, going on to note that it rejected ABCs argument that “buttocks are not a sexual organ” due to “common sense.” The shots were intended to be “titillating and shocking,” the FCC concluded. “Our action today should serve as a reminder to all broadcasters that Congress and American families continue to be concerned about protecting children from harmful material and that the FCC will enforce the laws of the land vigilantly,” Deborah Tate, then–commissioner of the FCC, wrote in a statement accompanying the fine notice. lifestyle  arts-and-entertainment       true Must Reads newsletter 5 stories you can't afford to miss, every Saturday. Please provide a valid email address. The case was eventually tossed in 2011 by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit in New York on the grounds of the FCC’s indecency policy being “unconstitutionally vague,” according to the Los Angeles Times. Some advocacy groups, such as the Parents Television Council, which seeks to ensure that “children are not constantly assaulted by sex, violence and profanity on television,” were appalled by the ruling. As its president, Tim Winter said in a statement: “Children and families are the real victims today. This ruling will only serve to embolden the networks to air even more graphic material.” Time has half-proved Winter to be right. Sex and nudity have become a staple of premium cable and streaming services, but it’s still rare on network television. Remember how the country reacted when Janet Jackson’s left breast made a split-second appearance at the 2004 Super Bowl? “It’s one of the enduring surprises to me that it pretty much stopped there for network TV,” Bochco reflected in his GQ interview. “Once we were a hit, I thought it would really open a door. Instead, all of the subsequent breakthroughs came on cable. Of network TV’s many failures, that’s one.” Read More: If ‘Brooklyn Nine-Nine’ gets canceled, the Sterling K. Brown episode was a perfect send-off The five kinds of reactions to the ‘Roseanne’ reboot, across the political spectrum