Three days before a blistering investigative report detailed decades of alleged sexual misconduct by Stephen Wynn, he made the largest publicly known donation this cycle to the main super PAC supporting President Trump, according to a new federal filing. America First Action said Friday it plans to keep the $500,000 donation the casino magnate made in January. The sum made up one-tenth of the group’s total fundraising so far this year, according to the group’s first-quarter ­2018 fundraising and spending records, filed Thursday night with the Federal Election Commission. “We are not returning the donation,” said Erin Montgomery, spokeswoman for America First Action. Wynn denied the allegations of sexual misconduct outlined in a January Wall Street Journal article but nevertheless resigned as chairman of Wynn Resorts and stepped down as financial committee chairman of the Republican National Committee. Newer allegations of sexual misconduct, including rape, have surfaced since then. The super PAC’s response Friday echoes the RNC’s decision to hold off on returning Wynn’s donations until investigations into the allegations are complete. [Meet the wealthy donors pouring millions into the 2018 elections] Wynn, through a representative, declined to comment. A representative for Wynn Resorts said Wynn is no longer associated with the company. Brothers Frank and Lorenzo Fertita, co-founders of Station Casinos, were the largest donors to America First Action this year, giving $2 million to the super PAC, filings show. The FEC disclosures do not reflect donations made to America First Policies, which is an advocacy group affiliated with America First Action and is not required to disclose its donors. The two America First groups raised about $13.6 million in the first quarter of 2018, Montgomery said. The pro-Trump super PAC spent $61,753 at the Trump International Hotel in the District in the first quarter, filings show. [Pro-Trump groups paid tens of thousands to Trump’s D.C. hotel and former campaign aides] Key Trump loyalists earned tens of thousands of dollars through their firms for providing communications and fundraising consulting and other services to America First Action in the first quarter, the group reported. The organization paid $20,000 to former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski’s consulting business; $20,000 to former campaign spokeswoman Katrina Pierson’s firm; $20,000 to the firm of Cara Mason, former finance director of RNC and Trump Victory Fund; $22,500 to former Milwaukee County sheriff David Clarke’s firm; and $46,808 to former campaign digital media director Brad Parscale’s business. 