The Post reports on the American military operation conducted with British and French forces against three chemical weapons sites in Syria: Syria, Russia and Iran shrugged off strikes on Saturday by the United States and its allies against three Syrian chemical weapons facilities, which drew angry condemnations but no indication that there would be a wider escalation. Russian President Vladimir Putin denounced the U.S.-led strikes against Syrian chemical weapons facilities as an “act of aggression,” Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatalloh Ali Khamenei tweeted that the attack represented “a war crime,” and the Syrian Foreign Ministry described it as “barbarous aggression.” But the pre-dawn volleys of cruise missiles launched by the United States, Britain and France were limited to three sites linked to Syria’s chemical weapons program and triggered no retaliation. Russia said they did little damage and that most of the cruise missiles targeting Syrian sites had been intercepted by Syrian air defenses, including all of those that were bound for the site from which last week’s alleged chemical attack originated. Reaction to the strike defied the usual partisan alignment. President Trump’s right-wing fans excoriated him for engaging in military involvement in the Middle East of the type then-candidate Donald Trump raged against during the campaign. Meanwhile, although some Democrats railed at the lack of congressional authorization, among the most modulated responses came from, yes, Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.). “Chemical attacks in Syria are horrifying, and a clear violation of international law. The world must hold Assad accountable for his violence against the Syrian people – and the US should be part of a planned, coordinated multilateral effort,” she tweeted. “The Constitution gives Congress the power to authorize military action. If [Trump] wants to expand American military involvement in Syria’s civil war, he must seek approval from Congress – & provide a comprehensive strategy with clear goals & a plan to achieve them.” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) likewise was also careful not to insist Congress authorize what amounted to “pinprick” strikes but warned the president about the need to develop a coherent plan in consultation with Congress. “This latest chemical weapons attack against the Syrian people was a brutally inhumane war crime that demands a strong, smart and calculated response. One night of airstrikes is not a substitute for a clear, comprehensive Syria strategy,” she said in a written statement. “The President must come to Congress and secure an Authorization for Use of Military Force by proposing a comprehensive strategy with clear objectives that keep our military safe and avoid collateral damage to innocent civilians.” While many conservative lawmakers praised Trump without demanding an explanation for U.S. objectives, anti-interventionist libertarians such as Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.) joined left-leaning lawmakers and outside groups in denouncing the raid as illegal. The operation was, in our view, a mixed bag — with some good, some bad and some ugly aspects. Let’s start on the positive side: Now the bad: Finally, the ugly: Americans may rightly fret that the strike, while justified on the merits, has something to do with Trump’s legal travails (e.g., the raid on his attorney’s office, James B. Comey’s book release). The queasy feeling that the president’s decision to use military force — or even the timing of the strike — may be influenced by personal, political factors underscores the degree to which the president has forfeited his moral authority and undermined his credibility. We should never be in the position of doubting the commander in chief’s motives, but with this president it’s impossible not to suspect he’s acting out of self-interest, not out of concern for the national interest. It sure doesn’t help when in the presence of his military and civilian advisers he launches a rant about the Cohen raid. Frankly, we have a president whose honesty and judgment have been called into question again and again by his own conduct and rhetoric. Would we really trust him to dispassionately assess the advisability of a first strike against North Korea or Iran? It is imperative that Congress act to constrain his ability to launch destructive and risky wars that go far beyond blowing up chemical weapons depots. Congress must speak with one voice in declaring that such action would constitute a declaration of war, which only Congress can authorize.