The latest Monmouth poll has something for everyone to dislike. President Trump’s base will be dismayed to see that he is viewed as less credible than the media outlets he attacks: Nearly half the American public (48%) trusts CNN more than Trump, compared with one-third (35%) who trust Trump more than CNN and another 13% who trust both equally as a source of information. The results are similar when Trump is pitted against the left-leaning MSNBC —  45% trust MSNBC more, 32% trust Trump more, and 16% trust both equally. The right-leaning Fox News also bests the president as a trusted information source — 30% trust Fox more and 20% trust Trump more, although a plurality of 37% trust both equally. I am not sure how Fox News, which parrots whatever Trump says, can be more or less credible than the president, but I suspect Fox News viewers are fans of the president and will choose him as the most credible, whatever the alternative. Media outlets and those fretting about Trump’s assault on the media will be distressed to see widespread belief among Americans that what the media tells them is “fake”: opinions  right-turn Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false   Please provide a valid email address. More than 3-in-4 Americans believe that traditional major TV and newspaper media outlets report “fake news,” including 31% who believe this happens regularly and 46% who say it happens occasionally. The 77% who believe fake news reporting happens at least occasionally has increased significantly from 63% of the public who felt that way last year. Just 25% say the term “fake news” applies only to stories where the facts are wrong. Most Americans (65%), on the other hand, say that “fake news” also applies to how news outlets make editorial decisions about what they choose to report. There are several findings that bear close examination. First, the definition of “traditional media” — the question was “Do you think some traditional major news sources like TV and newspapers ever report fake news stories, or not” — is problematic. That definition would include Fox News, which the non-Trump universe thinks is equivalent to state TV and condemns for pushing ridiculous conspiracy theories such as birtherism. With non-Trump supporters thinking Fox News is a crock, and pro-Trump Americans thinking the rest of the TV news media are the enemy of the people, it is a wonder the percentage of those convinced that “some traditional major news sources” propagate “fake news” isn’t 100 percent. A more interesting poll would ask whether specific outlets publish “fake news.” I suspect that as with everything else these days, the breakdown in opinion would be along tribal lines. Second, Trump has managed to utterly blur the meaning of “fake news.” He attacks perfectly accurate reporting that shows him in a bad light as “fake.” His followers complain that the mainstream media are not treating Hillary Clinton — who lost the election and is politically irrelevant at this point — as harshly as Trump. They therefore consider coverage of the errors and failures of the current president to be “fake.” The term “fake news,” to respondents, can mean erroneous news, intentionally erroneous news, incomplete news, biased news or simply editorial discretion that the viewer/reader might not like. In other words, the term — and hence the poll — serves to obscure rather than illuminate public opinion. Third, while Trump has damaged his own credibility, the result nevertheless is a net negative for democracy. A key aim of anti-democratic, authoritarian regimes is to destroy the notion of a common, ascertainable reality. If Trump’s lies are just as “fake” as an accurate CNN report on ethics abuses in the administration, then there is no common truth and no accountability. As Jeet Heer wrote: One of the defining tactics of his campaign was disinformation, coupled with accusations of the same against the media. That hasn’t changed now that Trump is president. The administration’s unified anti-press and anti-fact message over the weekend is part of a deliberate, long-term strategy that was hatched many months ago, and is only likely to intensify. The president will wage a rhetorical war against the media, with the intent of delegitimizing one of the few institutions that can hold him accountable, and he will wage it with his most effective weapon: Lies, damned lies, and false statistics. And finally, we should keep in mind that “traditional media” are now only a small part of Americans’ media diet. Social media and hyper-partisan websites and blogs provide media junk food for Americans to ingest 24/7. As they latch onto the gossip and conspiracies that fit their preconceptions, they increasingly resent traditional media. Truth becomes an intrusion into their media bubble; purveyors of inconvenient facts become a threat to their worldview. When Breitbart or a Russian troll farm carry the aura of legitimacy for voters, it is easy to see how real news looks “fake.”