A week after President Trump’s second strike on Syria, U.S. policy is back to square one. Trump still wants to exit as soon as possible, and his advisers are still trying to convince him that would be a disaster for Syria, the Middle East and U.S. national security. Trump’s first national security adviser, Michael Flynn, had a flawed but useful plan to bridge that gap.  Trump’s disagreement with his national security team on Syria spilled into public view this week when the president pulled back on new Syria-related sanctions on Russia, even though U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley had already announced them. Trump has no desire to escalate against Russia or the Assad regime following his one-off strike on three suspected chemical weapons sites in Syria. “The Trump strategy right now is to drop a few bombs on our way out and leave,” said Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), who spoke to Trump the night of the attack. “Trump has written Syria off as a Middle East problem, not a United States problem.” The dangers of a precipitous U.S. withdrawal from Syria are severe: Iran and Russia would entrench themselves militarily, our partners in Syria would conclude we abandoned them, U.S. credibility would suffer, and regional allies would look elsewhere for leadership. It’s highly likely that Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad would continue his mass atrocities, and it’s within the realm of possibility that the Islamic State could reemerge. House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Edward R. Royce (R-Calif.) told me there must be a new effort to convince the Trump administration that the United States has one last chance to avoid a total catastrophe in Syria — despite seven years of bad decisions and a lack of strategy. “We can constrain this problem now so that we can de-escalate this, or we can watch this thing go from a crisis in Syria to one that engulfs the region,” he said. “That’s what’s at stake, and that’s what we have to explain.” To be sure, some parts of Flynn’s Syria strategy were bad. Flynn’s connections to the Turkish government were inappropriate and potentially corrupt. His reported plan to abandon the Kurds was wrongheaded. And his reported proposal to fight jointly with the Russian military would never work. But one thing Flynn understood better than anyone was Trump’s desire to leave Syria, and Flynn knew how dangerous a precipitous withdrawal would be. That’s why even before the inauguration, Flynn devised a detailed strategy for Syria he planned to implement quickly, according to multiple people who dealt with him on Syria during the campaign and transition. Later, of course, he was fired. Flynn’s plan was to confront Iran’s expansion in Syria and continue to suppress the Islamic State as the first priority. He then wanted to deprioritize the effort to remove Assad and find a way to de-escalate with Russia. He wanted to narrow the goals, focus U.S. resources, demand more burden-sharing from allies and salvage the parts of Syria not already under Assad and Iranian control. Those parts of his strategy are still relevant today.  Flynn believed the United States had to support Sunnis on the ground in northeastern and southern Syria, as a way to stabilize those areas and prevent Iran from reaching our allies’ borders. De-escalation with Russia was something his commander in chief specifically requested. In fact, Syria was one topic of Flynn’s pre-inauguration conversations with Russian officials, the very same conversations that he would later plead guilty to lying about after it was reported he also discussed sanctions. Flynn was fired before he could implement his plan. Now, one year later, the United States still has no strategy in Syria that Trump and his national security team can agree on. There are signs that Flynn’s second successor, national security adviser John Bolton, is trying to find a compromise between a responsible Syria policy and Trump’s determination to cut and run. Bolton is reportedly calling up Arab leaders to persuade them to share the burden by throwing in money and even troops. But those nations won’t increase their involvement unless they believe that the United States has skin in the game. The U.S. intelligence community’s latest worldwide threat assessment, issued in February, stated, “The Syrian opposition’s seven-year insurgency is probably no longer capable of overthrowing President Bashar al-Asad or overcoming a growing military disadvantage.” But it also warns that the Islamic State is trying to regroup in Syria while Iran constructs bases and builds a Shiite militia network to influence the entire region. The Flynn plan is less than what Syria hawks such as Graham and Royce would have wanted. But it’s time to recognize that the major conflict phase of the war in Syria is over and our partners lost. Now, the United States must settle on a strategy for the next phase that protects our security and mitigates the damage in a way that both Trump and his national security team can support. Read more from Josh Rogin’s archive, follow him on Twitter or subscribe to his updates on Facebook. Read more on this topic: Michael Gerson: The real mission in Syria was never attempted Max Boot: Trump thinks we can replace U.S. forces in Syria with Arab troops. He’s wrong. David Ignatius: Enough whiplash on Syria. Trump needs an actual strategy. Marc A. Thiessen: Trump’s Syria strike was meant to project strength. It did the opposite. Hugh Hewitt: The West still stands for something exceptional