BALTIMORE — In what was shaping up to be one of the great buzz-kills in recent Baltimore Orioles history, the O’s almost followed up their uplifting Opening Day victory with the ultimate downer in Saturday night’s 6-2 loss to the Minnesota Twins at Camden Yards. Twins pitchers Kyle Gibson and Ryan Pressly combined to carry a no-hitter into the eighth inning before Jonathan Schoop poked a two-out, groundball single through the left side of the infield to turn it into a slightly less discouraging evening. [Orioles win season opener on Adam Jones’s homer in the 11th] Four more outs and it would have been the first no-hitter pitched against the Orioles since Seattle Mariners pitcher Hishasi Iwakuma turned the trick Aug. 12, 2015, at Safeco Field. Instead, the O’s went on to break up the shutout when Tim Beckham hit a two-run homer off reliever Gabriel Moya with one out in the ninth. Gibson had the Orioles swinging at air for much of his six-inning performance, but he had to settle for just two-thirds of a no-hitter. Gibson walked five batters and ran his pitch count to 102 before turning the game over to Pressly. He easily outdueled Orioles starter Andrew Cashner and left with a five-run lead. The Orioles struck out six times, and the only O’s hitter to make solid contact while Gibson was on the mound was the last batter he faced. Trey Mancini hit a low line drive that appeared destined to be a hit until Twins outfielder Eddie Rosario showed that he could slide and juggle at the same time. sports   Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. He barely gloved the ball at ground level and flipped it in the air before reaching out and grabbing it with his other hand. Pressly took over and the Orioles looked just as helpless in a quick seventh inning, but he walked Manny Machado with two outs in the eighth and Schoop scraped his first hit of the year. — Baltimore Sun