Many of those who watched the Boston Marathon — even the ones who follow the sport of running — had the same question Monday: Who in the world is Sarah Sellers? Sellers crossed the finish line in second place at the prestigious 26.2-mile race, in rain-soaked conditions, as a virtual unknown. Few online road-race results existed for Sellers, and she was not listed among the elite field for Boston. In the wet and windy conditions, Sellers wore a nondescript outfit, with no visible sponsors, and crossed the finish line by simply clicking the timer on her watch. Her time of 2 hours 44 minutes 4 seconds put her second among the seven American women who placed in the top 10. Desiree Linden was the first American woman to win the race since 1985, a historic finish in a race full of surprises. But Sellers’s finish may have been the most improbable. [How fatigue and a break helped Desiree Linden finally win the Boston Marathon] “I mean, I still can’t believe I finished second,” Sellers, 26, said in a phone interview Monday afternoon. “I’m going to wake up and this will be a dream.” Sellers (nee: Callister) never planned to podium at Boston. Not when she was a standout runner at Weber State University in Ogden, Utah, where she grew up. Not even when she qualified for Boston after winning the Huntsville Marathon last September in Utah in 2:44:27. She only signed up for Boston because her younger brother, 24-year-old Ryan Callister, was running it. (Ryan finished in 2:48:20.) Plus she’s also a nurse anesthetist who works full-time in Tucson. She doesn’t have an agent, or any sponsors, and has to fit in her workouts at either 4 a.m. before work or 7 p.m. after her 10-hour shifts at Banner Health Center. WSU Track Alum, Sarah Sellers Callister, finished 2nd at the Boston Marathon this morning!!! Way to go, Sarah!#WeAreWeber pic.twitter.com/8MPaZwEztp Over the past few months, Sellers mainly trained by herself, running six days a week and up 100 miles. Sellers may have been “one of the most sought after prep runners in the state of Utah” as her college bio states, but she was essentially an anonymous runner competing against the biggest names in the sport Monday. She still views the professional runners she beat as idols, not peers — “not only the American women, but also the international field,” she said. “Obviously the conditions were the wild card that everyone got dealt, but I think it played to my advantage,” Sellers said. “Looking at my time going into the race, I shouldn’t be on the same page as any of the top 20 women. … They’re in a different league than me.” But for one day, Sellers could say she was among the best. She earned $75,000 for her second-place finish, money she said would go toward paying off her and husband’s student loans. “I honestly didn’t think I would have anything to celebrate,” Sellers said. [The 2018 Cherry Blossom Ten Miler’s elite field included full-time runners — and a fifth-grade teacher] Her coach, Weber State’s Paul Pilkington, told her go to out conservatively, and for the majority of the race, Sellers hung back. When the fourth-place woman, Rachel Hyland, made a move around Mile 20, Sellers followed. As others started to fade, Sellers said she felt strong in the final stretch. She ran her second 13.1 miles faster than her first. “I think the biggest thing is her mental toughness,” Pilkington said. “She’s a little bit taller, so you’d think the wind would be detrimental, but she’s really strong.” Sellers wants to qualify for the “A” standard for the 2020 Olympic marathon trials (2:37) and said her Boston performance gives her confidence moving forward. She has no plans to scale back on her nursing job — “It’s really rewarding and gives me perspective on life,” she says — and intends to run another marathon this fall. To celebrate, she said she’ll treat herself to a few leisurely activities she didn’t have time for before Boston, like mountain biking and running on trails. On Wednesday, she will return to the health center to work a nursing shift, living a similar life to the one she did before. Except now, fewer people will have to wonder who Sarah Sellers is. Read more on the Boston Marathon: sports  sports Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Daily newsletter Sports news with a focus on D.C. area teams. Please provide a valid email address. Desiree Linden becomes first American woman since 1985 to win the Boston Marathon Five years ago, I caught the Boston Marathon explosions on camera. Here’s what I remember. The Japanese once ruled the Boston Marathon. A war bride’s son recalls the slurs.