BUDAPEST — Hungarians went to the polls Sunday in a pivotal election widely seen as measure of the state of democracy in the eastern periphery of the European Union. In a member state often seen as an ascendant autocracy, turnout was high as voters endured long lines to have their say on the future of their country. The reelection of Viktor Orban, Hungary’s staunchly anti-migrant, strongman prime minister, and his right-wing Fidesz party is almost certain. The question is whether he can pull off a two-thirds supermajority in parliament, a legislative carte blanche that in the past has allowed him to enact drastic changes to the constitution, attempt to influence the judiciary and crack down on his critics. A high turnout could spell trouble for Orban’s grip on power as he attempts to serve his fourth overall term. Even in gerrymandered districts, more votes for opposition candidates will be added to party totals, which could then undermine the presence of Fidesz in parliament. Virtually all polls suggest that Orban will remain head of the government, but political analysts are uncertain as to the meaning of Sunday’s high turnout. As he cast his ballot, Orban couched the election in existential terms: “What’s at stake is Hungary’s future,” he said. But opposition leaders wasted no time in heralding the highest rates of turnout since 2002, when Orban was thrown out of power in an election in which passions ran high. His political rebirth in 2010 heralded the dawn of a new hard-line conservatism that his challengers hope Sunday’s election will curb. [In Eastern Europe, the E.U. faces a rebellion more threatening than Brexit] In a video posted Sunday on his Facebook page, Gergely Karacsony, the Socialist party candidate for prime minister, announced that the turnout alone constituted an important achievement. “We are hopeful that the higher the turnout, the more people will vote for change,” he said. By early afternoon, turnout was more than 42 percent, compared with national voting bureau totals of 36 percent in 2010 and 34 percent in 2014, Orban’s previous two consecutive wins. Polls close at 7 p.m. (1 p.m. Eastern time). But political analysts urged caution in interpreting the numbers as any clear sign of a repudiation of Orban, noting that turnout has been unusually strong in rural constituencies, areas where both he and the Jobbik party — another right-wing, nationalistic faction — typically do well. Although turnout has been high in central Budapest, typically an anti-Orban constituency, it was also solid in the southwestern city of Hodmezovasarhely, where 46 percent of voters had cast their ballots. It was in this city that, in February, Orban’s party lost a special election it was predicted to win handily. In a surprise turn, independent candidate Peter Marki-Zay won the mayoral seat. That turnout could be high there could suggest an opposition surge, but it could equally indicate a Fidesz counter-reaction, said Bulcsu Hunyadi, a senior analyst at Political Capital, an independent Budapest think tank. And the same is true across the country. “We cannot really predict who is going to benefit from voter turnout,” he said. “This is a question about whether it’s a mobilization of opposition parties or whether it’s the success of Fidesz campaigning, who, after the [special election], mobilized their votes.” Fideszholds 114 of 199 seats in parliament, seats that derive from an electoral map that Orban’s administration drew in 2011. [Once-fringe Soros conspiracy theory takes center stage in Hungarian election] For some voters — even those who saw no viable alternative — the point was to limit the party’s power by any available means. To that end, this election — compared with Orban’s victories in 2010 and 2014 — is widely seen as a battle for the future of the country’s democratic fiber. “Have you been living in a cave? You know the stakes, you know what’s happening in Hungary. I’m voting because I’m angry,” said a 42-year-old sales representative who would give his name only as Adam. “It’s the corruption. In other countries, when there’s stories like this that come out, there is at least a kind of shame, a kind of immediate dismissal,” Adam said. “Here they don’t even bother with that. They know they are untouchable.” Some of Orban's supporters agree that their leader has his downsides but ultimately vowed to stand by him. Gabor Csorba, 48, a church finance officer, said that he did not approve of certain aspects of Orban’s personality and rhetoric but that he would vote for the incumbent anyway. “It’s better this kind of society will continue or else there will be instability ahead,” he said, after casting his ballot at the same polling place as Orban, noting that he has been a Fidesz voter since the 1990s, after Hungary’s post-communist transition. “I don’t see any program from the opposition,” Csorba said. This is a point that even some of Orban’s critics will concede. “The opposition is fragmented,” said Zoltan Katzenbach, a retired finance professional. “There is no real stable challenger.” “The government will not change. I’m quite pessimistic,” the sales representative said. Orban “will stay in power. I could say the big question is whether he will get the two-thirds majority or not, but still he will remain. Even if this becomes a bump for him, he can sit back in his chair.”  Andras Petho in Budapest contributed to this report.  Read more Analysis: How Viktor Orban became the real threat to the West Hungary’s prime minister becomes Europe’s Donald Trump Hungary accused of ‘hatemongering’ in national survey targeting George Soros Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news