The first round of the NBA playoffs continues today with three Game 6s, with the Pacers, Wizards and Thunder all in must-win situations. Follow along here for the latest analysis and commentary from The Post’s NBA reporter Tim Bontemps, and ask him questions in the comments section. Catch up on last night’s games here. Schedule | Pregame reading | Comments section Q&A   OAKLAND, Calif. – The Golden State Warriors may have their leader back in time for the start of the second round. Stephen Curry followed up his return to full practice Thursday with another full practice Friday – along with a 5-on-5 scrimmage afterward that was hidden from view of the media by a floor-to-ceiling divider. Curry then spoke to the media for the first time in weeks, and deemed himself “50-50” to play Saturday night against the New Orleans Pelicans in Game 1 of their Western Conference semifinal series here at Oracle Arena. “Still to be determined,” Curry said of his status for Game 1. “They come up with those snazzy words for [these situations] … doubtful, questionable, probable. I’ve learned a lot about what those words mean this year. “[I’m] just trying to work my way back, do what I need to do, do whatever [athletic trainer Chelsea Lane], the rest of the athletic training staff, coach needs to see to get me back out there. “That’s the only thing I can really focus on right now. But it’s good to be back playing basketball, doing basketball things.” Even if Curry does return Saturday night, he presumably would be on a minutes limit. He also said he may not return immediately to the starting lineup, as he didn’t when he came back from an injury during the postseason two years ago against the Portland Trail Blazers in the second round. But his presence alone would still be a boost to a Warriors team that should face a far stiffer test this series against the Pelicans — who impressively swept the Portland Trail Blazers — than they did in the five-game yawn-fest they just finished against the San Antonio Spurs. There has been speculation Curry may not play until next weekend – a full six weeks after he suffered a sprained MCL when JaVale McGee fell into his left leg last month – when the series shifts to New Orleans for Game 3. But now, after participating the last two days, it’s a coin flip as to whether Curry will return Saturday. “I have confidence I’m going to wake up tomorrow feeling good, then there’s another layer of conversation that needs to happen whether it’s the right move to play tomorrow,” Curry said. “But yeah, that’s basically where it’s at.”   Here’s a stat that should make Wizards fans feel good: The Toronto Raptors are losing at halftime. In the history of the franchise, that has happened 23 times in a playoff game. Toronto’s record? 0-23. Will tonight become 0-for-24? An 8-2 run to end the first half for the Raptors moved them to within three of the Wizards, 53-50, at halftime of Game 6. That ominous 0-23 stat aside, Toronto has to feel good about this, given how hot the Wizards were to start the game, the impact Fred VanVleet had in his first extended action of the series off the bench (two points and three assists in eight minutes) and DeMar DeRozan’s bad first half (3-for-10 shooting, including missing both threes). Kyle Lowry has 15 points at halftime to lead Toronto, while Bradley Beal has 14 and John Wall has 11 points and five assists for Washington.   The Cleveland Cavaliers once again showed up to a game in matching outfits. And, once again, they will be without starting point guard George Hill. Hill, who was one of four players acquired in the midseason swap fest Cleveland performed at the trade deadline, is sitting out for the third straight game since suffering a back injury in Game 3. Jose Calderon is once again going to start for the Cavaliers in Hill’s place. Regardless of who is starting at point guard for the Cavaliers, the Indiana Pacers are going to need more from Victor Oladipo in Game 6 if they are going to extend this series. Oladipo has gone 12-for-50 from the field the past three games as Indiana has dropped both Games 4 and 5 by slim margins. A few more baskets from Oladipo in both games and this series, realistically, could be over.   Where would the Wizards be without Mike Scott? That, remarkably, is a serious question. Washington leads Toronto 30-20 after the first quarter, in large part because of eight quick points off the bench from Scott. Signed on a minimum deal last summer, Scott has been a reliable bench scorer for the Wizards all season long – and particularly in this series. Including his 3-for-4 showing in the first quarter, Scott is 26-for-38 in the series – an absurd number. Now without Otto Porter Jr. for Game 6, as well as a potential Game 7, Washington is going to need Scott to keep producing like this to help make up for what they’ll lose with Porter out of the lineup.   The Washington Wizards had precisely the start they needed in Game 6. Playing without Otto Porter, Jr. and facing elimination, Washington needed to get off to a hot start. And, with three early three-pointers and 10 fast break points, that’s exactly what the Wizards have done. Also important: Kelly Oubre Jr. knocking down his first three. As I said earlier, the Wizards need a big game from Oubre shooting the ball, after he has struggled since the all-star break and entered this game 3-for-16 in this series from beyond the arc. Oubre is likely going to need to hit a couple more for the Wizards to win this game.   If the Washington Wizards are going to force a Game 7 against the Toronto Raptors – and, ultimately, advance out of the first round – they are going to need the version of Kelly Oubre Jr. that showed up before the all-star break. That was the case before Otto Porter Jr. was ruled out for the rest of the series after undergoing a procedure on his leg Friday. It definitely is the case now. “Just got to take my energy drink a little earlier,” Oubre told my colleague Candace Buckner of starting Game 6 in Porter’s place. “Take my pregame caffeine pill and I’ll be good.” More than taking a caffeine pill, the Wizards hope Oubre can remember how to hit a three-pointer again. Before the all-star break, Oubre shot 36.6 percent on threes – a more than respectable clip. Afterward? His percentage dropped to 29.3 percent. In the first five games of this series, Oubre has gone just 3-for-16 from beyond the arc – including 1-for-7 in Washington’s Game 5 loss to the Raptors in Toronto, a game the Wizards led by five in the fourth quarter before falling apart late. If there was ever a time the Wizards needed Oubre to bounce back to that early-season form, it would be now, as the loss of Porter is a real blow. Despite never looking right in this series after suffering a calf strain late in the regular season, and appearing to tweak his right foot/ankle early in Game 1, Porter still provided another threat to space the floor, as well as versatility in how Washington aligned itself. Now that will fall to Oubre. Wizards Coach Scott Brooks said before the game that it is “a great opportunity” for the 22-year-old forward. And he’s right. But if the Wizards want to extend their season beyond Friday, they’re going to need Oubre to take advantage of it. Making matters worse for Washington is the reintroduction to the series of Fred VanVleet for Toronto. The leader of the Raptors’ league-leading second-unit, VanVleet has played only three minutes so far in this series because of a shoulder injury he suffered in Toronto’s regular season finale against the Miami Heat, and his absence has been notable. For the team already trailing in the series, and needing two wins in a row to advance to the second round for a fourth time in five years, losing Porter while Toronto gains VanVleet is not an ideal situation for the Wizards to face.   Thursday’s schedule:   Additional reading: In wake of LeBron James no-call, Indianapolis mayor outlaws goaltending The Miami Heat bet big on Hassan Whiteside. It appears they made a mistake. Now what? A brief history of No. 8 seeds upsetting No. 1 seeds in the NBA playoffs The one-and-done rule is on the way out — because of NBA money, not NCAA morals Retirement? Dwyane Wade says there’s ‘no breaking news here’ It feels like the end of an era for the San Antonio Spurs The Sixers are flying high in the playoffs and, thanks to Joel Embiid, so is Kevin Hart Russell Westbrook and the Thunder don’t appear to have any idea how to beat the Jazz Why is there a snake on the Philadelphia 76ers’ court? Shining a spotlight on the 2018 NBA playoffs underachievers John Wall has regained point god form, and that’s just what the Wizards need It turns out this year might not be so different for the Raptors after all After first-round sweep, Blazers’ next steps could include trading away their stars ‘All my best games I was medicated’: Matt Barnes on his game-day use of marijuana Adam Silver: One of the WNBA’s problems is that not enough young women pay attention to it ‘Get off her back’: LeBron James defends TNT reporter who asked him about Erin Popovich’s death NBA, Twitch reach deal on 2K League streaming rights   Comment Q&A Hop into the comments section below to chat with The Post’s Tim Bontemps about all of your NBA questions.