AUGUSTA, Ga. — Most of the right names are in proper position. The final six groups in the third round of the Masters on Saturday include eight major champions. The oddity among them: The final group contains zero. Patrick Reed, the 27-year-old Texan who’s an established Ryder Cup hero, and Mark Leishman, an Australian who has contended here before, are each seeking their first major championship at Augusta National Golf Club. Reed’s second-round 66 on Friday vaulted him into the lead at the tournament’s midway point, getting him to 9 under par and granting him a two-shot advantage over Leishman. In 2013, Leishman played in the final pairing on Sunday in the Masters, watching countryman Adam Scott force a playoff, which he won. “Everyone wants to win, and if you don’t believe you can win them, then you probably shouldn’t be playing in them,” Reed said Friday evening. “I believe that if I play the golf that I know how to play that I can win majors.” So many around them have already done it. The penultimate group consists of Sweden’s Henrik Stenson (2016 British Open) and four-time major champion Rory McIlroy, who needs only the Masters to complete the career grand slam. Before them comes the duo of Jordan Spieth, whose three majors include the 2015 Masters, and Dustin Johnson, who won the 2016 U.S. Open. Also among those final six groups: 2017 PGA Championship winner Justin Thomas, 2010 British Open champ Louis Oosthuizen, 2013 U.S. Open champ Justin Rose and two-time Masters winner Bubba Watson. All are within seven shots of Reed’s lead. Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson both made the weekend at the Masters, but the pre-tournament hype that the two 40-somethings could contend proved untrue. Mickelson, a three-time champ here, began his Saturday in the third group at 10:20 a.m., trying to scratch back from 5 over. Woods, who has four green jackets, plays with Englishman Ian Poulter at 10:40 a.m., trying to recover from rounds of 73 and 75 (4 over). The final group tees off at 2:30 p.m., and it’s anyone’s guess as to how bad the weather will be by then. Rain was falling over Augusta National in the morning, and it’s possible that will continue all day — potentially with wind mixed in as well. [ Live Masters leader board ] How to watch This week isn’t just about Woods. Many of the world’s best players enter the week in strong form. Add in the Woods intrigue, and you’ll want to know how to watch all weekend, a tricky proposition, since this is the tightly controlled Masters. Still, there are a few options. (All times are Eastern.) Tee times for Round 3 (All times are Eastern) 10 a.m. Paul Casey 10:10 a.m. Matt Fitzpatrick, Kiradech Aphibarnrat 10:20 a.m. Tyrrell Hatton, Phil Mickelson 10:30 a.m. Webb Simpson, Xander Schauffele 10:40 a.m. Tiger Woods, Ian Poulter 10:50 a.m. Adam Scott, Bryson DeChambeau 11 a.m. Doug Ghim (a), Bernhard Langer 11:10 a.m. Martin Kaymer, Si Woo Kim 11:20 a.m. Brian Harman, Daniel Berger 11:30 a.m. Chez Reavie, Kevin Kisner 11:40 a.m. Branden Grace, Jason Day 11:50 a.m. Francesco Molinari, Kyle Stanley Noon Ryan Moore, Jhonattan Vegas 12:10 p.m. Satoshi Kodaira, Fred Couples 12:30 p.m. Rafael Cabrera Bello, Vijay Singh 12:40 p.m. Haotong Li, Russell Henley 12:50 p.m. Tommy Fleetwood, Adam Hadwin 1 p.m. Hideki Matsuyama, Zach Johnson 1:10 p.m. Bernd Wiesberger, Jimmy Walker 1:20 p.m. Matt Kuchar, Jon Rahm 1:30 p.m. Charley Hoffman, Cameron Smith 1:40 p.m. Justin Rose, Bubba Watson 1:50 p.m. Rickie Fowler, Louis Oosthuizen 2 p.m. Justin Thomas, Tony Finau 2:10 p.m. Jordan Spieth, Dustin Johnson 2:20 p.m. Henrik Stenson, Rory McIlroy 2:30 p.m. Patrick Reed, Marc Leishman Weather Saturday’s third round could get a little dicey. The forecast calls for a 100 percent chance of rain with possible thunder and some wind, especially in the morning. Whether it will halt play remains to be seen, but it very well could. The wet weather should help soften Augusta’s notoriously tricky greens. The skies will clear a bit for Sunday’s final round, though it will be cool with highs in the mid-60s. Favorites The Post’s Barry Svrluga identifies five players who could win this weekend, including Rory McIlroy, Phil Mickelson, Jordan Spieth, Bubba Watson, and yes, Woods. Who could win but won’t? Jason Day heads that list. Read the rest of Svrluga’s breakdown here. The Post’s Neil Greenberg, meantime, gives the highest win probabilities to Reed entering the third round. His explanation is here. Josh Planos analyzes which six holes may decide Woods’s fate. More Masters coverage from The Post: Svrluga: When Tiger and Phil play a practice round, it’s anything but meaningless sports  sports Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. For 10 bucks, you can eat like a king at the Masters Augusta National to host a women’s amateur event in 2019 Tiger and Phil teamed up for nine holes of golf. (They won.)