ORLANDO — Playing all 82 games matters to Bradley Beal. You could sense how important this personal achievement would be for him in the way he responded to the question this week. When a reporter relayed Coach Scott Brooks’s intentions to possibly limit Beal before the end of the Washington Wizards’ regular season, and asked if the two have had that discussion, Beal answered the question straight. But as Beal walked away from the scrum, he half-jokingly muttered just loud enough for all to hear: “I’m going to ask [Brooks] if he wants to coach all 82.” Certainly, Brooks will be on the sideline, in a suit and tie and hair gelled just right, for Game No. 82 tonight in Orlando. And absolutely, Beal wants to walk out onto the Amway Center floor for his 82nd straight game — the first time in his six years as a professional that he can claim this Iron Man distinction. “I haven’t talked to Coach,” Beal said after the Wizards’ Tuesday night win over Boston while looking forward to Wednesday, “but I’m going in with the mind-set that I am [playing].” When this season is all over, Beal deserves his share of huzzahs. He not only endured the rigors of a six-month marathon, but did so while primarily carrying the burden as his team’s best all-around player, with John Wall missing half the year (just 41 game appearances, largely due to left knee surgery in January). To Wall, any player should want to play the full slate. “Yeah, definitely. If I didn’t have the injuries I had in my career I [would] want to play every single game,” said Wall, who played and started every game once in his career during the 2013-14 season. “I don’t believe in the resting or sitting out. People make those decisions on their own or the training staff does that, but these fans and these people come and see us play and it might be a kid’s one time. “That’s one quote I use from Michael Jordan,” Wall continued. “He always took every game seriously because it might be the one game that kid … gets to see him play. So, why would you want to rest?” Even though Beal might deserve a breather, however, he won’t be getting a rest anytime soon, with the Wizards playoff-bound. That is the downside of the 82-game distinction: Beal will enter the Eastern Conference postseason having logged more minutes than any playoff-bound Washington player since 2008. Ahead of the Wizards’ finale against the Magic on Wednesday, Beal had logged 2,940 minutes and played 19 games of 40 or more minutes. For comparison, Wall reached the 40-and-over club 13 times before the 2014 playoffs — the most of his career. Only Antawn Jamison, who totaled 3,061 minutes entering the 2008 playoffs, has compiled more on-court time than Beal. In 2007-08, Jamison anchored the Wizards while playing 30 games of 40 minutes of more. Then as Jamison reached the first-round series against the Cleveland Cavaliers, he maintained a heavy load while his season averages plummeted. Jamison had averaged more than 21 points per game that season, but posted 16.8 points on 40.6 percent shooting in the series. The Wizards lost in six games. For his part, Beal does not seem to be breaking down at a significant rate. When his jumpers miss short, it’s easy to point to fatigued legs. However, in April, Beal’s shooting percentage has paced with his season average (46 percent from the floor). More than any other year, Beal said he feels “a little tired, probably for obvious reasons.” However, circumstances met his personal goals — he wanted to play all 82 games, and the Wizards needed him to do so this year. After overcoming a season of mental and physical exhaustion, Beal now believes his Iron Man routine can continue for the playoffs. “At the same time, I feel good. There are no injury problems, or any nagging injuries,” Beal said. “It’s just soreness here and there that goes away with time. I’m constantly doing my routines and recovering the right way. My body feels good. I’m happy. I’m happy that I was able to play the whole year, every game up until this point. My body feels good.” Read more on the NBA: NBA 2018 awards picks: James Harden, Ben Simmons, Rudy Gobert lead the way The NBA’s coach of the year race is too close to call, but we’ll try anyway After a decade in the minors, this 32-year-old finally got called up by the Lakers