Lorde’s 2017’s album, “Melodrama,” addresses a breakup without being a breakup album. It was predominantly written during the latter stages of the New Zealand star’s teenage years, showcasing the now-21-year-old’s evolving sense of identity. The songs on “Melodrama” catalogue a relationship’s demise and the ensuing solitude that triggers the agonizing, but necessary, process of self-discovery. Tears, late-night confessionals and dancing the pain away at house parties are all part of the process. Lorde addressed the kinetic energy of it all during Sunday night’s show before a sold-out crowd at the Anthem, citing the beauty of seeing the album’s themes come to life, sharing the experience in an intimate setting and making it a celebration of growth rather than a painful relic from a not-so-distant past. Her “Melodrama” tour was an extension of the album’s catharsis — a chance to extend the party by riding young adulthood’s emotional roller coaster. entertainment music  Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false   Please provide a valid email address. A cacophonous blend of synths and soft fluorescent lights filled the space as the show began with “Sober,” in which Lorde sang of being “King and Queen of the weekend.” It’s a feeling of invincibility that makes her and her casual lover feel like the only people at the party, but she can’t overcome sobering feelings of doubt lingering in the back of her mind. “Are you in a dancing mood?” Lorde asked the crowd before performing “Tennis Court,” from her 2013 debut, “Pure Heroine.” She certainly was, scampering across the stage with her dancers, moving with playful, nervous energy throughout the evening. On “The Louvre,” between reflections on the intoxicating feeling of young love, she offered the sound of her own heartbeat as the rhythm for all to dance to. Since “Melodrama” serves as a testimonial, it was natural for Lorde to emphasize that element during the show. Before performing “Writer in the Dark,” where she moves on after burying the remains of her failed union, the singer sat on the stage and said it felt like she was inside the audience’s living room. She even jokingly requested a drink, to which an eager fan obliged. But it was the song’s raw emotion, complemented by its bare-bones structure, that struck a nerve. Humor easily allowed Lorde to connect with the crowd, but something deeper prompted the sea of swaying cellphone lights inevitably found in so many concert films and music videos. Sunday night’s performance was the only show during the North American leg of her tour that wasn’t in an arena. (“Your very impressive basketball team booked the arena,” she noted, but that seemed doubly wrong because the Wizards were off Sunday and haven’t resembled “very impressive” lately.) The added intimacy was felt in those fan interactions, the sheer awe at her dancers moving inside a glass box tilted at a 45-degree angle high above the stage and her cover of Frank Ocean’s “Solo” — the perfect lead-in for her delicate ballad “Liability” and “Sober II (Melodrama),” the moment when the party’s over and reality sets in. “Melodrama” and its corresponding tour place Lorde’s reality under the microscope: her joys, fears and mistakes. These are constants in her life and career. Remember that “Royals,” one of the decade’s biggest pop records, naively linked garish symbols of opulence to lazy hip-hop tropes. Just last week, Lorde apologized for a since-deleted Instagram post that seemingly mocked Whitney Houston’s death. Lorde’s still making sense of this ever-confusing thing called life. If nothing else, Sunday night’s show made clear she’s enjoying every twist and turn. 