Daniel K. Akaka, a liberal Democrat from Hawaii who served in both houses of Congress and quietly devoted himself to looking after the interests of his home islands during more than 35 years on Capitol Hill, died April 6 in Hono­lulu. He was 93. The death was confirmed to the Hono­lulu Star-Advertiser by a former spokesman, Jesse Broder Van Dyke. He had been hospitalized for several months, but the cause of death was not immediately disclosed. Mr. Akaka, who did not seek reelection in 2012, was the first-ever native-born Hawaiian elected to Congress. Avuncular and with a penchant for giving hugs, he was widely liked in Washington but was not a power broker in the mold of Hawaii’s former senior U.S. senator, Daniel K. Inouye. “He has a very strong spirit of aloha that he carries in him to Washington,” retired University of Hawaii political scientist Neal Milner said of Mr. Akaka, “and that’s important for a politician from Hawaii.” Mr. Akaka was a teacher and school principal in Hawaii in the 1950s and 1960s and rose to head Hawaii’s anti-poverty efforts in the early 1970s. He was first elected to the U.S. House in 1976 and, as a member of the Appropriations Committee, directed money to Hawaii for education and military installations. In 1990, the governor of Hawaii appointed then-Rep. Akaka to fill the seat of U.S. Sen. Spark M. Matsunaga, who had died in office. Elected to his first full Senate term in 1994, Mr. Akaka went on to chair the Veterans’ Affairs Committee and sit on the Indian Affairs Committee. Though Mr. Akaka served on a number of committees with wide purview — including Armed Services, Homeland Security and Energy and Natural Resources — he rarely ventured onto the Senate floor and had little national impact. In 2006, Time magazine called Mr. Akaka “a master of the minor resolution and the bill that dies in committee,” and chided him for being so politically inoffensive that even James M. Inhofe, a conservative senator from Oklahoma, called him “a lovable person.” Mr. Akaka’s supporters said Washington was simply not accustomed to his humility or respectful of his quiet persistence on behalf of Hawaiians, particularly Native Hawaiians. “I was taught not to be a showhorse but a workhorse” Mr. Akaka told a Hono­lulu newspaper in 2006. “So, in a way, it’s been a part of me not to brag.” In 1993, he and Inouye successfully pushed through a resolution in which the federal government apologized for overthrowing the Hawaiian monarchy 100 years earlier, stripping islanders of their right to self-determination. He was perhaps best known for later efforts to win recognition for Native Hawaiians as an indigenous group deserving of the same sovereignty as Native American tribes on the U.S. mainland. The idea enjoyed support from President Barack Obama, who was born in Hawaii, as well as from a host of Democratic politicians and aboriginal peoples’ groups. Mr. Akaka introduced Hawaiian sovereignty measures every year beginning in 2000, once pressing for its passage with a running series of 15 daily speeches on the floor of the Senate. He came closest to winning in 2010, when the “Akaka Bill” passed in the House. The bill died in the Senate, however, after Republican opponents charged that it would establish an unconstitutional precedent for race-based treatment of Americans. Others said the bill would trigger the first racially based secession movement in U.S. history. Mr. Akaka decried the “misleading attacks” and “unprecedented obstruction” that led to the bill’s defeat. He reintroduced the bill in 2011, but it never reached the floor. Daniel Kahikina Akaka was born in Hono­lulu on Sept. 11, 1924. His father was of Chinese heritage, and his mother was Native Hawaiian. After graduating in 1942 from the Kamehameha School for Boys, a private college prep school specializing in Native Hawaiian language and culture, he joined the Army Corps of Engineers and served as a mechanic for two years during World War II. He considered becoming a minister but instead received bachelor’s and master’s degrees in education from the University of Hawaii. He directed Hawaii’s Office of Economic Opportunity from 1971 to 1974. Survivors include his wife of 69 years, the former Mary Mildred Chong; five children; 15 grandchildren; and 16 great-grandchildren. Once, Mr. Akaka memorably shed his habit of silence on the Senate floor. During a debate over the 1990 farm bill, he forcefully spoke out against an effort by Sen. Bill Bradley (D-N.J.) — the imposing, 6-foot-5 former basketball player — to cut the federal sugar subsidy by 2 cents per pound. The measure, which was repellent to the Hawaiian sugar industry, was defeated 54-44. “I’m only 5-feet-7,” Mr. Akaka later said. “But I slam-dunked him.”  Read more  Washington Post obituaries  William Prochnau, Vanity Fair journalist and best-selling author, dies at 80 Alfred Crosby, environmental historian of ‘Columbian exchange,’ dies at 87 Anna Chennault, secret Nixon envoy and Washington figure of ‘glamour and mystery,’ dies at 94