The first round of the NBA playoffs continues today with four Game 5s, including two possible elimination games. Follow along here for the latest analysis and commentary from The Post’s NBA reporter Tim Bontemps, and ask him questions in the comments section. Catch up on yesterday’s games here. Schedule/TV info | Pregame reading | Comments section Q&A   When the NBA playoff bracket was finally set, the Cleveland Cavaliers and Toronto Raptors seemed all but assured of a collision in the second round. That, though, was before both have looked thoroughly unimpressive at times during the opening four games of their respective first-round series, splitting four games with the Indiana Pacers and Washington Wizards, respectively. And now, as both teams enter pivotal Game 5s on their home courts Wednesday night, they’ll be without key pieces as they try to move within one victory of advancing. Cleveland will be missing George Hill, as the starting point guard will miss his second straight game after injuring his back during Game 3. Jose Calderon will once again start for the Cavaliers. Calderon is a very good shooter, doesn’t turn the ball over and Cleveland has generally played very well when he has played this season. But Calderon is also another terrible defender on a team full of them. Hill, on the other hand, is one of the few Cavaliers capable of actually stopping someone. Fred VanVleet, meanwhile, will miss his third straight game for Toronto with an injured shoulder. VanVleet, who has been the leader of the Raptors’ league-leading second unit this season, injured his shoulder in the final minute of regulation of Toronto’s regular season finale against the Miami Heat. He didn’t play in Game 1, played three minutes in Game 2 and hasn’t played since. Toronto has missed his presence — particularly in Game 4, when Delon Wright got some of the open looks VanVleet normally would knock down and didn’t take advantage of them. Ahead of Cavs-Pacers, both Cleveland Coach Tyronn Lue and Indiana Coach Nate McMillan suggested they could change their rotations in Game 5. McMillan said that Glenn Robinson III, who missed much of this season with an ankle injury, could play, while Lue said Turkish rookie Cedi Osman could see time.   Wednesday’s schedule: Additional reading: A brief history of No. 8 seeds upsetting No. 1 seeds in the NBA playoffs The one-and-done rule is on the way out — because of NBA money, not NCAA morals Retirement? Dwyane Wade says there’s ‘no breaking news here’ It feels like the end of an era for the San Antonio Spurs The Sixers are flying high in the playoffs and, thanks to Joel Embiid, so is Kevin Hart Russell Westbrook and the Thunder don’t appear to have any idea how to beat the Jazz Why is there a snake on the Philadelphia 76ers’ court? Shining a spotlight on the 2018 NBA playoffs underachievers John Wall has regained point god form, and that’s just what the Wizards need It turns out this year might not be so different for the Raptors after all After first-round sweep, Blazers’ next steps could include trading away their stars ‘All my best games I was medicated’: Matt Barnes on his game-day use of marijuana Adam Silver: One of the WNBA’s problems is that not enough young women pay attention to it ‘Get off her back’: LeBron James defends TNT reporter who asked him about Erin Popovich’s death NBA, Twitch reach deal on 2K League streaming rights Comment Q&A Hop into the comments section below to chat with The Post’s Tim Bontemps about all of your NBA questions.