John Melcher, a Montana Democrat who served in both houses of Congress and was known for his support of his state’s agricultural interests and who advocated environmental preservation measures, died April 12 at his home in Missoula, Mont. He was 93. His daughter Joan Melcher confirmed the death to the Associated Press. The cause was not disclosed. Dr. Melcher was a veterinarian in rural eastern Montana before entering local politics in the 1950s. He entered the U.S. House of Representatives in 1969 after winning a special election to replace a congressman who resigned to become a federal judge. He was reelected three times before winning his Senate seat in 1976, replacing Mike Mansfield (D), who had been Senate majority leader before retiring. During his time in Washington, Dr. Melcher largely stuck to bread-and-butter issues for a farm-state lawmaker, such as crop subsidies and overseas trade. He was a stout defender of federally funded food programs as a way to fight hunger. “We Americans have food in massive oversupply,” he said in 1985. “That oversupply has crushed farm prices. We must dispose of the surpluses inorder to strengthen prices, and we should dispose of them by feeding the starving and hungry overseas and the malnourished at home.” A liberal on hunger and environmental issues, Dr. Melcher also held some conservative views, including opposition to abortion to abortion rights and support of school prayer. In 1988, he co-sponsored heavily debated bill that would have permanently set aside 1.4 million acres of public land as wilderness, while opening an additional 4 million acres to logging, drilling, mining and tourism. President Ronald Reagan vetoed the bill just days before the election, an action Democrats called politically motived. Melcher lost to Republican Conrad Burns, who captured 52 percent of the vote with a campaign that portrayed Dr. Melcher as a big-spending liberal. Dr. Melcher blamed himself for his 1988 defeat. In a 2002 AP interview, he estimated that he was so busy in Washington that he had spent only 18 days on the campaign trail. “I was back here trying to get a wilderness bill passed,” Dr. Melcher said. “When I was defeated, I was a victim of my own lack of form and direction in the campaign.” He attempted a political comeback in 1994 but was defeated in the Democratic primary for the nomination to challenge Burns. Dr. Melcher remained in Washington, working as a lobbyist, notably for the American Veterinary Medical Association. John David Melcher was born Sept. 6, 1924, in Sioux City, Iowa. He grew up in Iowa and South Dakota. He served in the Army during World War II and was part of the Normandy invasion force in 1944. He graduated from veterinary school at Iowa State University in 1950 and settled in Forsyth, Mont. He was elected the town’s mayor three times and served in the state legislature before entering Congress. In 1984, Dr. Melcher sponsored at amendment to the Animal Welfare Act of 1966, calling for sensitivity to the psychological well-being of nonhuman primates in laboratory research. The measure drew praise from Jane Goodall, the well-known wildlife advocate. And during congressional inquiry into the Iran-contra affair, Melcher complained about the description of Reagan staffers as “White House cowboys.” That, Melcher said, was “mighty degrading to the cowboy profession.” His wife of 69 years, the former Ruth Klein, died in 2015. Survivors include five children; a brother; a half sister; a half brother; 10 grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren. Dr. Melcher supported Reagan’s tax-cut bill in 1981 but opposed further tax cuts in 1986. He was one of three senators to vote against a U.S.-Canadian trade agreement in 1988. “There are very few people in Congress who understand what the West is all about,” Dr. Melcher once said. In answering conservative critics in Montana, he ran a television ads with talking cows, saying the “know bull when they hear it.” Read more  Washington Post obituaries  Daniel K. Akaka, Hawaii senator with ‘spirit of aloha,’ dies at 93 Alfred Crosby, environmental historian of ‘Columbian exchange,’ dies at 87 Anna Chennault, secret Nixon envoy and Washington figure of ‘glamour and mystery,’ dies at 94