Alec Baldwin’s President Trump returned to “Saturday Night Live” this week in an opening sketch that had him fielding questions alongside Baltic leaders — or as he called it, the leaders of “Estonia, Lithuania, and I wanna say, Stankonia.” And as the news cycle keeps up its frenetic pace, SNL once again jam-packed this cold open with references to tons of news stories. Baldwin’s Trump declared, “We’ve also expelled the infamous Chinese billionaire, P.F. Chang.” He then said he’d “like to read a prepared statement to prove that I can read,” before deciding to “freestyle” it and giving a nod to real-life Trump not heeding the counsel of his national security advisers: “A big congratulations to Vladimir Putin!” Then Baldwin’s Trump turned it over to the others. “Gypsy woman, you’re first,” he says to the president of Lithuania. Meanwhile his internal monologue reveals just how bored he is — while referencing “Roseanne” ratings and the star’s political leanings: “I wish I was watching ‘Roseanne.’ How great is that show? Roseanne loves me. She’s like a good Rosie O’Donnell.” [ ‘Roseanne’ ratings stay strong after its premiere is the highest-rated sitcom episode in years ] When a reporter asks whether Trump really hates Jeff Bezos, following all those tweets, Baldwin’s Trump explains: “I do. I hate Jeff, because he’s way more mature than me and he admits to being bald, so I feel threatened on two levels.” (Jeffrey P. Bezos, the founder and chief executive of Amazon, owns The Washington Post.) Then when Baldwin’s Trump complains about migrant caravans, he basically describes “Mad Max: Fury Road.” “That’s right — they are some Mad Max-icans,” the fake Trump clarifies. Finally, Trump’s Baldwin wraps up the questions with an admission: “Here’s the thing that no one else is saying, and I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, okay? This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.” Despite that answer basically shutting up all the fake reporters, SNL had to add one more joke off the week’s news: The Easter Bunny — you know, from Monday’s White House Easter Egg Roll — all of a sudden appears behind Baldwin’s Trump. “Does anyone else see this rabbit?” he asks. “I think this might be a ‘Donnie Darko’ situation.” It’s been a month since Baldwin played Trump on SNL. But that doesn’t mean the show hasn’t used Trump for joke fodder. SNL has managed to find other ways to skewer the administration and its critics, mostly by depicting the many people in Trump’s orbit that the public is increasingly growing familiar with: Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, former secretary of state Rex Tillerson and even special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, in a mash-up with “The Bachelor.” lifestyle  arts-and-entertainment       true Must Reads newsletter 5 stories you can't afford to miss, every Saturday. Please provide a valid email address. Read more: Between Betsy DeVos, Jeff Sessions and Rex Tillerson, SNL sure had a lot to work with this week SNL brings back Stefon and his delightfully bonkers nightlife recommendations