A former U.S. intelligence official who was pushed out of the White House last summer by President Trump’s former national security adviser is taking a job as a senior adviser to Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Ezra Cohen-Watnick will provide advice to Sessions on issues related to national security, counterintelligence and counterterrorism. “He’s accepted the job and is supposed to start next week,” said Mark Zaid, an attorney for Cohen-Watnick. “This was in the works for months.” During an eight-month stint at the White House, Cohen-Watnick sought to increase the U.S. government’s focus on counterintelligence threats stemming from Russia and China, officials said. At the time, Cohen-Watnick, 31, was the senior director on the National Security Council for intelligence, a position that is traditionally filled by a CIA veteran. His relative youth and background as a former clandestine officer in the Defense Intelligence Agency led some officials to question his qualifications for the job. Cohen-Watnick’s name vaulted into the news after Trump accused his predecessor, Barack Obama, without evidence, of wiretapping his phones at Trump Tower. Rep. Devin Nunes (R.-Calif.) the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, sought to bolster the president’s accusation by saying he had amassed evidence that Trump’s communications were swept up by spy agencies’ surveillance of foreigners. Cohen-Watnick was accused at the time of funneling intelligence to Nunes, who did not divulge his sources. Matt House, a spokesman for Senate Democratic Leader Charles E. Schumer (N.Y., accused Cohen-Watnick on Wednesday of helping Nunes “turn the House Intelligence Committee investigation into a partisan breeding ground for conspiracy theories.” Cohen-Watnick did not provide any intelligence reports to Nunes, Zaid said. “It is completely untrue,” Zaid said. “Ezra had nothing to do with Congressman Nunes coming to the White House. This is a falsehood spread by some in the NSC who he had conflicts with.” H.R. McMaster, Trump’s former national security adviser, forced Cohen-Watnick to resign last summer. Zaid described his client as a career civil servant who has served the country in Afghanistan and even interned for former vice president Joe Biden.