Mitzi Shore, owner of the Los Angeles club the Comedy Store and one of the most influential figures in stand-up for more than four decades, died April 11 in Los Angeles. She was 87. The Comedy Store announced the death in a statement but did not give a cause. Her son, comedian and actor Pauly Shore, had tweeted in recent days that Ms. Shore was in hospice. Legal documents filed by her family said she had Parkinson’s disease and other neurological problems. Ms. Shore opened the Sunset Strip club with her husband, comedian Sammy Shore, and fellow comic Rudy De Luca in 1972. When she and her husband divorced two years later, Ms. Shore assumed control of the venue, which she soon expanded and built into a comedy empire with locations in Westwood, La Jolla and eventually at the former Dunes Hotel in Las Vegas. “Comics felt very belittled in those days — they always had to work with a singer,” Ms. Shore told the Los Angeles Times in 1993. “I wanted it to be all comics. No jugglers and magicians. I wanted to give them respectability.” In addition to offering comics a place to perform, Ms. Shore dispensed advice and guidance and occasionally offered her performers a place to sleep. Virtually every major comic, from Richard Pryor to Robin Williams to Jerry Seinfeld, used the club as a steppingstone and returned to hone their acts after gaining fame. “Mitzi Shore was a pioneer who gave more comics their start than I can count,” Kathy Griffin tweeted Wednesday. “I did my first legit comedy gig at the Store. She was a woman in a male dominated business who pulled no punches.” Mitzi Lee Saidel was born in Marinette, Wis., on July 25, 1930, and arrived in Los Angeles at a moment when stand-up was booming. She became a queen over the scene, with arguably more power than anyone to make or break the career of an up-and-coming comedian. Working as the doorman at the Comedy Store became known as an entry-level job for aspiring comedians, including Jim Carrey and Marc Maron. Ms. Shore essentially lived at the club through the 1970s and ’80s, and her four kids — Pauly, Scott, Peter and Sandy — were regulars roaming the floor even when they were tiny. Her four children all survive her. The Comedy Store, which took pride in being open 365 nights a year, was closed in her honor Wednesday. Read more  Washington Post obituaries  Peter Gruenberg, Nobel-winning scientist who advanced computer technology, dies at 78 Yvonne Staples, part of family’s hit-making gospel group, dies at 80 Donald McKayle, choreographer of modern dance and Broadway stage, dies at 87