The 24-hour whirlwind of criticism or praise for Michelle Wolf’s controversial roast at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner ended late Sunday with President Trump calling the comedian “filthy” and the association’s president expressing regret that Wolf’s monologue did not live up to the “spirit” of the dinner’s mission, which is “not to divide people.” Both took some heat for their responses: Trump for being hypocritical, the association for being, in one critic’s words, “spineless,” or, as a Harvard Law School professor emeritus put it, “sickening.” Either invite someone who'll be critical and then have the courage to stand by them when the powerful inevitably complain ... or else own up to how spineless you really are and bring Rich Little in to do some cute little impersonations. https://t.co/TTswn2PFD4 They were reacting to Wolf’s 19-minute routine Saturday night, which included what some perceived as vulgar comments about the appearance of women in the administration, particularly White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders. Wolf said Sanders “burns facts, and then she uses the ash to create a perfect smokey eye.” She also compared Sanders to the Aunt Lydia character in “The Handmaid’s Tale” — a character who indoctrinates the handmaids with sinister beliefs. [Michelle Wolf doesn’t want to make a point — she just wants to make you laugh] Early Monday morning, Trump, in another tweet, declared the dinner “DEAD as we know it. This was a total disaster and an embarrassment to our great Country and all that it stands for….” Trump’s late-night tweet “filth” comment prompted a torrent of responses recalling some of Trump’s comments about women centering on their bodies or parts of their bodies. There was a long list of examples. He has called Megyn Kelly a “bimbo” and insinuated that he thought she must have been menstruating when she moderated a presidential debate. On the Howard Stern show he has rated women’s looks on a 1 to 10 scale. He has respectively called Rosie O’Donnell and Arianna Huffington “disgusting” and “unattractive,” “both inside and out.” And he has called MSNBC’s Mika Brzezinski “low I.Q. Crazy Mika” who was “bleeding badly from a face-lift.” “Anyone pearl clutching over [Wolf’s] comments and demanding she apologize needs to demand that Trump apologize for calling women fat pigs, slobs, talking about their bodies,” comedian Kathy Griffin wrote in a widely circulated, 26-tweet thread defending Wolf’s monologue. “Not to mention, apologize for comments like ‘blood coming out of her …’ — but no they haven’t demanded that of him because they’re terrified of Trump. Instead, they go after a comic who is paid to make jokes.” And, of course, there was the “Access Hollywood” tape, in which Trump bragged about how he could “do anything” to women. The White House Correspondents’ Dinner was a failure last year, but this year was an embarrassment to everyone associated with it. The filthy “comedian” totally bombed (couldn’t even deliver her lines-much like the Seth Meyers weak performance). Put Dinner to rest, or start over! The White House Correspondents’ Dinner is DEAD as we know it. This was a total disaster and an embarrassment to our great Country and all that it stands for. FAKE NEWS is alive and well and beautifully represented on Saturday night! The president, who did not attend the dinner for the second year in a row, said in a tweet that the event should either be discontinued or re-envisioned. He also alluded to the 2011 White House correspondents’ dinner, when he was mocked by comedian Seth Meyers at a time when Trump was leading the “birther” movement against President Barack Obama. The dinner “was a failure last year, but this year was an embarrassment to everyone associated with it,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “The filthy ‘comedian’ totally bombed (couldn’t even deliver her lines-much like the Seth Meyers weak performance). Put Dinner to rest, or start over!” “As someone who has listened to all the Trump-Stern interviews,” CNN’s Andrew Kaczynski wrote on Twitter, “I don’t think he should be throwing stones about all the ‘filthy’ comments or jokes.” Filthy? She was just quoting you! https://t.co/XAU9jrpjwf Relax republicans. It was just locker room talk #WHCD Remember when Donald Trump called his accuser too ugly to sexually assault and then everyone got mad that @michelleisawolf said Sarah Sanders is a liar with smoky eye makeup? High-profile journalists, including Brzezinski and Maggie Haberman of the New York Times, were among those who criticized Wolf’s comments as unfairly targeting Sanders’s physical appearance. Haberman said it was “impressive” that Sanders “absorbed intense criticism of her physical appearance, her job performance and so forth” and didn’t walk out. Brzezinski, calling the comments “deplorable,” said the White House Correspondents’ Association should apologize to Sanders. By Sunday night, it seemed the pileup of complaints about Wolf’s speech had weighed on the association’s leadership. The association’s president, Margaret Talev, had previously said that Wolf’s “embrace” of the First Amendment and “her truth-to-power style make her a great friend to the WHCA.” But on Sunday night, she said, “Last night’s program was meant to offer a unifying message about our common commitment to a vigorous and free press while honoring civility, great reporting and scholarship winners, not to divide people. Unfortunately, the entertainer’s monologue was not in the spirit of that mission.” #WHCA Statement to Members on Annual Dinner pic.twitter.com/8DKoHNxpNi Others who saw Wolf’s jokes as an indictment of the administration and the character of its leadership — rather than quips about any woman’s appearance — were quick to criticize the association for seeming to renege on its commitment to freedom of speech. Lies turning into ash turning into a smokey eye is a joke about lies. Calling her Aunt Lydia is a joke about standing for the oppression of women under the guise of folksy warmth. These aren’t jokes about her physical appearance. They’re intense criticisms of her character. Charlotte Clymer of the Human Rights Campaign put it this way on Twitter: “An organization dedicated to exercising the First Amendment holds an annual event that was created to celebrate the First Amendment and releases a statement admonishing a performer for criticizing the White House over their attacks on the First Amendment.” “This statement is as cringeworthy as any joke ever told at a #WHCD,” MSNBC correspondent Jacob Soboroff said on Twitter. “The First Amendment is cool to celebrate and embrace, except when it’s not, I guess.” The entertainer’s monologue was not in the spirit of the mission of this organization should be the disclaimer media companies include every time they cover a racist trump speech. This is why I think they shouldn't even have it. Inviting someone to speak freely and then kneecapping her like this is the worst possible outcome. https://t.co/MXtTRZWFmt Seriously Republicans, enough already with your fake outrage about an eye shadow joke.You elected a man who calls women "fat pigs." More from Morning Mix: After ‘Avengers’ screening, a Calif. man started yelling about God. Moviegoers panicked. Singer Halsey stirs debate over hotels offering only ‘white people shampoo’ ‘It was amazing’: Brazilian surfer rides record-breaking 80-foot wave