 In the wealth of new series with new names bubbling up at the Kennedy Center, the KC Jukebox sometimes gets lost in the crowd. This is a shame, because of all of them — Direct Current, Declassified, Shift, Voices and so on — the KC Jukebox has the longest track record and, for all of its ups and downs, the most consistently intriguing vision: You never quite know what it’s going to offer next. Wednesday night’s iteration at the Terrace Theater, which concluded its third season, was a case in point. It was billed as a “JFK Jukebox,” a celebration of civil rights, but anyone who came expecting music of the civil rights era had to shift expectations: The earliest piece on the program was from 1981. This important program did, however, put a spotlight on African American voices. Carlos Simon’s quartet “An Elegy: Cry From the Grave” was motivated by the deaths of Trayvon Martin, Eric Garner and Michael Brown. Ted Hearne’s “The Answer to the Question That Wings Ask” is a collaborative piece with Saul Williams, interweaving the poet’s strong spoken words with music by the Mivos string quartet. Even more of a tour de force was the performance of an excerpt of “The Holy Presence of Joan d’Arc,” by Julius Eastman, a visionary composer who died in 1990 and whose work is now gradually being rediscovered and hailed for its brilliance. Clarice Jensen, the artistic director of the American Contemporary Music Ensemble, reconstituted this section of the piece’s score by transcribing it from a video; it is written for 10 cellos. A persistent flaw of the KC Jukebox series is that for all of its flash and after-parties (DJ Moose was, once again, in attendance), its concerts tend to be understated, with a laid-back vibe much like that of their instigator, the composer Mason Bates. This one was a group of powerful pieces played by a large and impressive array of performers, starting with David T. Little’s “Electric Proletariat,” performed by the group Newspeak. But the works were presented in a museum-like way, with the composers introducing them via prerecorded video rather than talking directly to the crowd, which added an unnecessary formality to music that ached to make direct connections. As usual, the program presented strong contrasts, from Little’s intricate and sometimes abrasive rhythms to Simon’s quartet, passionate and heartfelt and brief. Hearne’s piece had some of the flaws inherent to the marriage of music and spoken word: The ear and mind were pulled between Williams’s thoughtful words and the conversational, scurrying, dialoguing instruments, challenged to find the through line in both. It showed why printed texts can be helpful, though in this case perhaps anathema to a poet whose work is about sound and directness. Eastman’s piece came from another place — an earlier New York — with the first exuberant flush of post-minimalism and rock influences merged in an extravagant chorus. (How often does one assemble 10 cellos?) This is a voice that lived largely outside the establishment, now tamed and brought into it, now less a gesture of defiance than a relic. It was a great thing to hear and worth the price of admission on another uneven, thought-provoking and worthwhile program.