The No. 8-seeded Washington Wizards are looking for a Game 1 upset over the Toronto Raptors. Toronto has infamously lost 10 straight Game 1s, including going 0-6 at home. Here are live updates from Game 1 (and don’t forget to talk to us in the comments!): *Careless Wizards costing themselves in final quarter: When a lower seeded team is trying to pull off an upset win on the road, it can’t be making dumb plays. Unfortunately for the Wizards, they tend to specialize in dumb plays, and two of them early in the fourth quarter could prove to be costly. A flagrant foul by Mike Scott resulted in two free throws for Kyle Lowry and a four-point play overall for the Raptors. Then, just a few minutes later, Kelly Oubre’s casual pass to Bradley Beal under the Wizards’ basket became a turnover that led to a C.J. Miles three-pointer. That has allowed the Raptors to go on a 10-0 run that’s put Toronto ahead by nine a little over midway through the fourth. If the Wizards lose this game, they’ll point to this stretch as the reason. — Tim Bontemps *Kelly Oubre scored! He may be 1-for-4 from the floor, but that was a big three-pointer for Kelly Oubre Jr., who has been embroiled in a horrific, weeks-long slump on the perimeter. Then he made a sloppy pass that was stolen and CJ Miles hit a three. Welp. *Speaking of … It’s raining in Toronto: Raining THREES! The Raptors drilled their 15th three-pointer of the game after Oubre gave up that latest turnover. They’re 15-for-29 from beyond the arc, which, as the Villanova men’s basketball team will tell you, makes them very hard to beat. *Well, Mike Scott is a hockey fan: Okay, he’s more of a hockey jersey fan. But still. That shoulder/elbow check that resulted in a Flagrant 1 could be the first truly chippy moment of the series. *Guards will be the difference in Toronto: This Raptors-Wizards series was billed as a battle of all-star backcourts. With Toronto holding a four-point lead early in the fourth quarter, that’s exactly how Game 1 has played out. So far, John Wall (18 points and 14 assists), Bradley Beal (17 points and three steals) and DeMar DeRozan (17 points and six assists) have showed up. Kyle Lowry (nine points, five assists, four turnovers) has not. How those four guys play in the final 12 minutes will determine whether the Wizards pull off an upset or the Raptors finally end their Game 1 losing streak. — Tim Bontemps * END OF QUARTER 3: Toronto leads 86-85 after a tight 10 minutes: A back-and-forth quarter left Washington trailing by one. John Wall continues to lead a pretty balanced scoring effort on the Wizards’ part — he’s got 18 points and is 3-for-5 from three — while Serge Ibaka had a monster third quarter. Ibaka has 21 points including three three’s for Toronto. * Toronto’s All-Stars aren’t leading the team? Old news: Serge Ibaka (14 points) and OG Anunoby (10 points) powered the Raptors throughout the first half, while DeMar DeRozan (five points) and Kyle Lowry (two points) lagged more than they usually do. But, somewhat surprisingly, that’s nothing new for the pair against Washington, especially when looking at their defensive stats. *HALFTIME: Washington leads 59-55, and Wall has a double-double: John Wall has 13 points and 10 assists in his first game against Toronto this season as the No. 8 seed Wizards look to give the Raptors their 10th consecutive Game 1 loss. Caption this: * The other highlight of the half? That would be Mike Scott, back from the concussion protocol to add 10 points on 5-for-7 shooting from the floor * Need an assist? The Wizards sped up the pace and increased their passing for a 13-0 burst in the second quarter. They’ve got 14 assists on 20 made field goals now. * Kelly Oubre in a funk: Oubre is a critical part of the Wizards’ second unit, but in eight minutes off the bench tonight, he’s 0-for-3 from the floor. * Mike Scott is no longer concussed: Oh look! It’s Mike Scott, back in the lineup after entering the NBA concussion protocol on Wednesday night after taking a hit to the head against Orlando. * END OF QUARTER 1: Toronto leads, 28-23: John Wall had nine points and four assists as he helped Washington survive a first quarter in which the Raptors shot 52 percent from the field. Toronto, meanwhile, is getting its offense from somewhat unexpected sources … *Washington is weathering the storm: Toronto started strong as the Wizards dealt with some odd fouls early, but Washington bounced back with an 8-0 run — including a three-point play from John Wall and a nice dunk from Markeiff Morris — to stay competitive. *Otto Porter is limping, both the bigs have fouls: Washington’s got some minor troubles early that could turn into major troubles. After sinking a big three-pointer early, it looks like Otto Porter is limping, or at least not able to run comfortably. Meanwhile, both Marcin Gortat and Ian Mahinmi have two fouls. Nothing to do but put a small lineup on the floor. * Just FYI, here’s something to keep an eye on: Who’s guarding DeRozan? * Leaks don’t just happen in Washington: There’s been freezing rain all day in Toronto apparently, and it looks like Air Canada Centre sprang a leak. That delayed the game while officials made sure the court was safe enough for players. * Of course I want to talk about the pregame outfits: Do you see that bee on John Wall’s Gucci sweater? Of course you do. John Wall wants you to know it doesn’t matter how polished and preppy John Wall looks. John Wall will sting you. Kelly Oubre looks very Kelly Oubre in his high-waters. It wouldn’t be an NBA player arrival-outfit montage without a Supreme label somewhere. Markieff Morris looks well prepared for the snow in Toronto, but I have questions about the button-placement on his coat. I also don’t think I would look so imposing if I were carrying that pouch. *UPDATE: I told you, John Wall will sting you: * John Wall’s “legit brother”: John Wall’s pregame handshake ritual with his teammates apparently extends to opponents — when that opponent is Wall’s good friend DeMar DeRozan. Wall calls the Toronto all-star his “legit brother,” not just his “NBA Brother” (there’s a crucial difference), and spends time with DeRozan in the offseason. Saturday is the first time the two guards face each other this year, as Wall missed all four of the Wizards’ games against Toronto in the regular season. Game information Washington Wizards (No. 8 seed, 43-39, 2nd in Southeast Division) at Toronto Raptors (No. 1 seed, 59-23, 1st in Atlantic Division) Date and time: Saturday, 5:30 p.m. Channel: NBC Sports Washington and ESPN Location: Air Canada Centre Regular season series: Wizards 2, Raptors 2 View the full series guide here. Remaining schedule Game 2: Tuesday, at Toronto, 7 p.m., NBCSW+ and NBA TV Game 3: Friday at Washington, 8 p.m., NBCSW and ESPN2 Game 4: Sunday, April 22, at Washington, 6 p.m., NBCSW and TNT Game 5 (if necessary): Wednesday, April 25, at Toronto, time TBD, NBCSW Game 6 (if necessary): Friday, April 27, at Washington, time TBD, NBCSW Game 7 (if necessary): Sunday, April 29, at Toronto, time and television TBD Additional reading >>On Thursday, Washington announced that forward Mike Scott is going through concussion protocol and that the team had signed veteran guard Ty Lawson for the playoffs. Friday, the league suspended Wizards sharpshooter Jodie Meeks for 25 games for violating the terms of the NBA-National Basketball Players Association anti-drug program, meaning he will be ineligible for postseason play. >> Anyone expecting Wizards guards John Wall and Bradley Beal to preview their first-round tilt against the Raptors by proclaiming themselves as “the best backcourt in the NBA” will be disappointed. Washington’s duo holds their northern rivals’ Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan in high esteem. >> While Toronto is the East’s top seed, the Wizards are still attempting to complete the task of finding themselves, which might be a greater challenge than the daunting opponent, writes Jerry Brewer. >> In his postseason predictions, Tim Bontemps writes of Raptors-Wizards, “I want to pick Washington to win this series. The Wizards match up well with Toronto and have shown no fear for them this season … But it’s just impossible to put that much faith in this Wizards team after the way they’ve played this season.” He says it’s Toronto in seven games. >> Though they’re the underdogs, the Wizards view a matchup with Toronto much more favorably than some of the other teams with lower seeds. And while the Wizards struggled all season with under .500 teams, just as they did on Wednesday in the loss to the Magic, they knocked off nine playoff-bound opponents after the all-star break. They also split the regular-season series with Toronto, players reasoned, and five-time all-star John Wall didn’t play a second in the four games. >> Bradley Beal reached a personal milestone, playing all 82 games of the regular season. It’s the first time in his six years as a professional that he can claim the Iron Man distinction. But here’s the downside of the 82-game distinction: Beal enters the postseason having logged more minutes than any playoff-bound Washington player since 2008. >> The Wizards’ struggles over the last couple weeks of the regular season were cause for much hand-wringing in Washington. Coach Scott Brooks used words like “selfish” and “embarrassing.” Among the possible reasons for the slide? Teams figuring out the sets Brooks ran when Wall was sidelined, according to one NBA scout. “If you run the same things week in and week out and those things don’t change, those become stale,” said the scout, who saw the Wizards several times both with and without Wall. “The league doesn’t take that long to adjust to that.” >> Speaking of Brooks labeling the Wizards, he has often used the word “unacceptable” to describe his team’s play. Actually, we compiled all the times Brooks and Beal said that very word. >> John Wall returned from his injury and resumed his all-star status by averaging a double-double in points and assists. But Wall and his Wizards teammates are trying to rekindle their chemistry of the past, and their efforts have produced moments of miscommunication. >> You see it before every game: A double tap, a head bob, a floor brush. Here are the Wizards’ pregame handshakes, explained. >> Regular season success isn’t foreign to the Raptors, who have exceeded 50 wins each of the past two seasons. But in the postseason, the Raptors have clammed up, needing every ounce of their energy to escape from their first-round series and then continuing to struggle against actual contenders. Tim Bontemps explains how Toronto changed its approach this season in hopes of getting a different result. >> The Raptors have the NBA’s best bench and have had a strong reserve unit for a while — their 2015 team actually had a higher bench BPM than their starters, which is unprecedented for a good team. But the reliance on the bench is also one of the causes of Toronto’s disappointing playoff results. Here’s a deeper look at the Raptors bench, with some names you may not recognize who are making a big impact. sports  washington-wizards Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Daily newsletter Sports news with a focus on D.C. area teams. Please provide a valid email address. >> Neil Greenberg crunched the numbers and the Raptors have the second-best chances of winning the title this season at 22.1 percent. The Wizards? Eh, you don’t want to know. But there’s better news for the Wizards: Washington has a 12 percent chance of upsetting Toronto in the opening round. So that’s something! >> Finally, here’s a complete schedule for the NBA’s first round, with some quick analysis from Tim Bontemps. More Wizards | NBA news | Post Sports | Post Sports on Facebook