Reuters reports: “U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Thursday defended his decision not to appoint a second special prosecutor to investigate Republicans’ concerns about the FBI by noting that Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia probe had already taken on ‘a life of its own.’ Sessions did however defend the FBI, for once, ‘calling its director, Christopher Wray a “man of integrity,” and warned lawmakers not to ‘smear everybody’ at the department.” Frankly, Sessions should not be commenting at all on the Russia investigation since he is recused. Voicing frustration — this “needs to conclude” — can be seen as trying to affect both the extent and time frame of the probe. As a substantive matter, Sessions is questioning the grant of authority to special counsel Robert S. Mueller III. Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein authorized Mueller to investigate Russian collusion as well as “any matters that arose or may arise directly from the investigation” and “federal crimes arising from the investigation of these matters.” There is nothing unusual about such a grant of authority; if it did not include other crimes arising from the investigation, Mueller would not, for example, be able to prosecute witnesses for perjury. A member of Congress exercising proper oversight might want to dash off a quick letter to Sessions with the following questions: Sessions, we realize, is in a very tricky spot. He wants to both avoid getting fired (which would plunge the country into a constitutional crisis) and avoid violating his own recusal (which he arguably did when we waded back into the investigation and helped carry out the firing of the FBI director). Nevertheless, if Trump is going to fire him, he’ll fire him; public commiseration with the president erodes Sessions’s own credibility and does damage to the rule of law. Sessions has two possible legacies: as a man who did his job so that the criminal justice system worked as it should when the president was at issue, or as a man who promoted the erosion of protections against politicization of the Justice Department. If the latter, he’ll go down as the worst attorney general in history.