More than 40 years after the so-called “Golden State Killer” began terrorizing California, raping dozens of women and killing at least 12, authorities announced Wednesday that they had arrested 72-year-old Joseph James DeAngelo in the case. DeAngelo’s arrest offered a shocking, abrupt development in what had long been one of the most notorious unsolved string of crimes in U.S. history. The gruesome attacks unfolded across California for more than a decade, shattering families and communities, and then remained a mystery for a generation, with little sign the case would ever be solved. The trail ultimately led authorities to DeAngelo, a former police officer living in Citrus Heights, Calif., a city outside Sacramento. Authorities said DeAngelo — who was an officer when at least some of the attacks occurred — was found through DNA evidence, though they declined to elaborate on what that evidence was or how it was obtained. “The magnitude of this case demanded that it be solved,” Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert said at a news conference in the California capital. “We found the needle in the haystack, and it was right here in Sacramento.” Sacramento County court records showed that DeAngelo was booked into jail early Wednesday morning on two counts of murder. No bail was set, and it was not known if he had an attorney. The string of attacks — attributed to someone alternately dubbed the Golden State Killer, Original Night Stalker and East Area Rapist — was horrifying for the nature of the attacks and the sheer breadth of the violence. Between 1976 and 1986, the FBI said, the attacker killed a dozen people and raped 45. The victims were as young as 13 and as old as 41, they said, and included couples who were murdered as well as people brutalized in front of their loved ones. Investigators had said they thought the Golden State Killer may have had a law enforcement background, and DeAngelo fit that bill. Between 1973 and 1979, DeAngelo served as a police officer in two different California police departments, said Sacramento County Sheriff Scott Jones. The timeline meant that DeAngelo was a law enforcement official when the attacks began, learning how to be a police officer at the same time authorities now believe he was beginning a reign of terror. It remains unclear whether this training and knowledge of law enforcement tactics played a role in how the case stayed unsolved for so long. “Very possibly he was committing the crimes during the time he was employed as a peace officer,” Jones said Wednesday. Jones said DeAngelo had worked for the Exeter, Calif., police department between 1973 and 1976. John Hall, the city’s police chief, said in an interview Wednesday that no one currently with the department was there at the same time. Still, he said, the idea that DeAngelo might have worked for the department was a blow. “It’s absolutely shocking as well as disheartening and disappointing,” Hall said. “Not only did he commit these horrific crimes, but he did it while wearing the uniform and enjoying the public’s trust.” The case remained an object of intense focus for many in law enforcement and the public over the years. In 2016, the the FBI made a renewed plea — and offered a $50,000 reward — for help in finding what they called “the violent and elusive individual.” Beginning in 1976, the Golden State Killer is believed to have raped dozens of women in their homes — meticulously planning intrusions, sometimes ambushing entire families, and killing several victims toward the end of the bloodshed, all before vanishing in 1986. The attacker was also behind numerous residential burglaries in the state, the FBI said. For relatives of the victims, the shock of DeAngelo’s arrest left some feeling a sense of closure. Others were overwhelmed by the sudden news. Jennifer Carole was sleeping in her Santa Cruz home when the text came in at 7:11 a.m. on Wednesday. When she woke, she could hardly believe it. “Could this really be him?” a friend had typed out and sent a link to a news article. It was. Almost four decades after Carole’s father, Lyman Smith, and step mother, Charlene Smith, were found murdered in their Ventura, Calif., home, police said they had found a suspect behind the violence. She was torn by conflicting emotions. “This is a hard one,” said Carole, 56. “There aren’t really words for this. I have feelings all over the place … In my mind, I had him dead as a way to cope, so his capture is stirring up all kinds of emotions.” Carole said it was a chilling feeling to know the alleged killer had been in the Sacramento area the whole time. Her mother and father had lived in the area for some time. In March 1980, her brother had gone to their father’s home to mow the lawn, but he grew suspicious when the home’s alarm didn’t go off when he entered. He went upstairs to check on his father and stepmother, Carole said, and called 911 after finding found sheets pulled up over the bodies. “I hope to God he confesses,” said Carole, who was 18 at the time, of the man now in police custody. In Citrus Heights, residents said they were stunned by news that the suspect had lived among them. Some also recalled strange encounters with DeAngelo, who neighbors said lived in a home with his daughter and granddaughter. Eddy Verdon recalled meeting him after moving to the area and found him to be nosy, eventually discovering DeAngelo on his property three years ago. When he heard someone around the property and looked in the garage, he found DeAngelo ready to flee on his bicycle. “I stared him down, and he looked at me nervously,” he said. “I never really interacted with him again. Maybe it wasn’t such a bad idea.” Since the attacker seemingly disappeared, investigators and amateur detectives have searched for him across the United States and inquired as far away as Australia. “He was young — anywhere from 18 to 30 — Caucasian, and athletic, capable of eluding capture by jumping roofs and vaulting tall fences,” the crime writer Michelle McNamara wrote in a Los Angeles Magazine profile of the old cases. If they’ve really caught the #GoldenStateKiller I hope I get to visit him. Not to gloat or gawk — to ask him the questions that @TrueCrimeDiary wanted answered in her “Letter To An Old Man” at the end of #IllBeGoneInTheDark. pic.twitter.com/32EHSzBct5 McNamara, who wrote a bestselling book about the attack, wrote that the attacker had entered homes beforehand, “learning the layout, studying family pictures, and memorizing names” in preparation. As a result, she wrote, when someone “woke from a deep sleep to the blinding flashlight and ski-masked presence, he was always a stranger to you, but you were not to him.” When a woman managed to escape a 1979 attack, McNamara wrote, she said she saw a man pedaling away on a bicycle. The attacker was particularly cruel, McNamara wrote, placing dishes on the male victims he had tied up and “telling him that if he heard the dishes fall, he’d kill the female, whom he would then lead into another room to rape.” Police first dubbed the man the East Area Rapist, since they do not believe he began to kill people until later. The first known attack took place in the middle of the night in the summer of 1976, when a man snuck into a home in east Sacramento County, raped a young woman and left. Authorities said the same man raped someone again a few weeks later, then again and again. After a year, two dozen women had been attacked in the Sacramento area. One victim was said to be a 13-year-old girl whose family was home at the time. Two people were beaten to death with a fireplace log. Brian and Katie Maggiore were gunned down while walking their dog in Rancho Cordova. A man and his girlfriend were fatally shot in his condo, with a cellophane-wrapped turkey carcass found on the patio. The killer, McNamara later wrote, had eaten some of their leftover Christmas dinner before departing. The last known victim was 18-year-old Janelle Cruz, raped and bludgeoned to death in Irvine in 1986. Decades would pass before DNA tests linked all of these crimes, and investigators realized that the East Area Rapist of Sacramento was the same man called “Original Night Stalker” near L.A. DNA evidence has proven crucial in other cases, such as the East Coast Rapist, who was arrested in 2011 when one of his discarded cigarettes proved to be a match for genetic material in that case. Julie Tate and Matt Zapotosky in Washington and Sawsan Morrar in Citrus Heights, Calif., contributed to this report, which has been updated.