BALTIMORE — Through his first five outings in a Baltimore Orioles uniform, right-hander Andrew Cashner showed a knack for avoiding the big inning despite allowing plenty of base runners. He entered Saturday’s start against the Detroit Tigers having stranded 85.9 percent of his base runners, the eighth-highest left-on-base percentage among qualified American League starters. Cashner couldn’t limit the damage Saturday, though, derailed by a four-run second inning that led to his shortest start of the season in the Orioles’ 9-5 loss to the Tigers in front of an announced crowd of 20,896 at Camden Yards. He lasted just four innings, allowing seven runs, six earned, on seven hits and three walks. After Cashner (1-4) dodged danger in the first inning — he held the Tigers to just one run in the opening frame after allowing three of the first four batters to reach base — Detroit broke the game open in the second. Cashner struck out James McCann looking to open the inning but then allowed the next three hitters to reach base. Jose Iglesias’s one-out single started the rally. Iglesias stole second, hitter Dixon Machado walked, and Leonys Martin hit an RBI single. Two batters later, Cashner left an 0-1 curveball over the plate to Miguel Cabrera, who took it the opposite way for a three-run homer onto the flag court in right field. In the fourth inning, Cashner put two on with one out. Third baseman Danny Valencia’s throwing error put the leadoff man on, and Cashner walked Jeimer Candelario. Cabrera then shot a sinking line drive to left field that Craig Gentry dived after, but it skipped past him and to the left field wall to score two runs and put the Orioles down 7-0. The Orioles (7-20) scored once in the fifth and four times in the seventh, but the Tigers added insurance runs in the seventh and ninth to seal the win. — Baltimore Sun Read more on baseball:  Called in to pitch, Pablo Sandoval throws filth in 1-2-3 inning for the Giants With the worst behind them, new manager Gabe Kapler and the Phillies are thinking big Yawkey Way outside Fenway Park renamed because of namesake’s allegedly racist past ‘Pitching Ninja’ is back in baseball’s good graces. Here’s what he has learned.