A wild spring storm is set to spin up in the nation’s heartland Friday. From blizzard conditions to tornadoes, fires, wild temperature swings, and torrential downpours, it will offer a little bit of everything as it plows east over the weekend. Some of this weather will be dangerous. Let’s take a look at what is expected. On the storm’s north and northwest periphery, frigid air will spill south. Heavy snow is expected to spread from northeast Colorado through south central Minnesota and, ultimately, northern Wisconsin and northern Michigan. As the storm cranks up Friday, howling winds will accompany the snow, and blizzard warnings stretch from northeast Colorado through north central South Dakota. Winds gusting up to 50 to 80 mph are predicted to bring whiteout conditions in this zone. The heaviest snow is expected near the Nebraska-South Dakota border where totals may close in on a foot and half, with much higher drifts. “Travel will be very dangerous to impossible,” the National Weather Service warned. Farther to the east toward the Twin Cities, the winds won’t be quite as severe, but the Weather Service has issued a winter storm watch for 5 to 8 inches of snow, from Friday evening to Saturday night. Localized totals could reach a foot, with wind gusts up to 45 mph. Just to the south of where wind-swept snow is forecast, severe thunderstorms are forecast to erupt Friday as warm, humid air collides with frigid air pouring southeast. A zone of enhanced risk for severe thunderstorms spans from northeast Texas to southern Iowa. “All severe hazards are possible with very large hail and a few tornadoes, one or two of which could be strong, being the primary threats,” the Weather Service Storm Prediction Center cautions. On Saturday, that zone shifts east along the Gulf Coast to the Tennessee Valley. Already on Thursday, the powerful front developing along the storm’s leading edge is drawing up hot, dry winds over the western half of the Lonestar State resulting in an “extremely critical” fire risk. Relative humidity values are in the bone-dry 5 percent range.  In Amarillo, the mercury soared into the 90s Thursday, near record levels, with wind gusts to 50 mph. This area is tinder-dry, having hardly received any rain in many months. By Friday, after the front passes, that hot, dry wind will turn to a cold, dry wind as high temperatures are in the 50s. The fire risk will ease modestly in the Texas Panhandle but remain extreme just to the south. “Dangerous fire weather conditions are likely across portions of far southern New Mexico, much of west Texas, and through southwestern/central Oklahoma,” the Weather Service Storm Prediction Center warned. Both along the warm front extending east of the storm center and the cold front shooting south, tremendous temperature swings are expected. The warm front, over a distance of mere miles, will separate radically contrasting temperatures. On Saturday afternoon, the American model shows: By Sunday, the NAM model suggests that warm front could press south, pushing the warm-cold transition zone into the Mid-Atlantic. This model on Sunday afternoon shows: Meanwhile, to the west, along the cold front: By Tuesday, this cold front will exit the East Coast, dropping temperatures to below normal for most of the eastern third of the nation. As this powerful storm system tracks east and draws copious moisture from the Gulf of Mexico, a large area is expected to receive very heavy rainfall. At least an inch of rain (and/or melted snow) is forecast everywhere in the eastern third of the Lower 48 through Monday. Locally higher amounts of 2 to 4 inches are possible in some locations.