Carolyn Jacobson, a labor activist who was credited with advancing women’s health care coverage during her 40-year career in the union movement, died March 23 at her home in Washington. She was 67. The cause was uterine cancer, said her niece, Clarice Jacobson. Ms. Jacobson spent much of her career at the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers & Grain Millers union, where she became communications director. She was also a founding member, in 1974, of the Coalition of Labor Union Women, a national organization representing women in unions; in retirement, she was a consultant and special assistant to the group’s president. Her creation in 2001 of a contraceptive equity project at the coalition educated female union members about their right to demand contraceptive coverage after the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled a year earlier that employers must cover contraceptives if other preventive care for medical conditions are included in health plans. Coalition President Elise Bryant said Ms. Jacobson was “kind of a one-woman show” who originated and directed the contraceptive project. “It was her vision, and she executed it.” For the contraceptive project, Ms. Jacobson developed model language for contracts, paved the way for other women to become advocates within their organizations and was a “powerful voice in driving that as an agenda item,” said Liz Shuler, the secretary-treasurer of the AFL-CIO. At a time when contraceptive coverage was seen as a “side issue,” Ms. Jacobson pushed it forward, Shuler said. “Now, it’s core.” Through her work, she also advocated for cervical cancer awareness and prevention. Carolyn Judith Jacobson was born in Mineola, N.Y., on June 2, 1950. Her father was a lawyer, and her mother taught at a Jewish religious school. She graduated in 1972 from Cornell University’s School of Industrial and Labor Relations, now known as the ILR School. She moved to Washington that year for an internship with the AFL-CIO and received a master’s degree in public information and administration from American University in 1979. Ms. Jacobson worked at the bakers union from 1973 until she retired in 2001. In 1996, she helped establish a scholarship fund to support female labor leaders. That fund became the Berger-Marks Foundation the following year and closed in 2017. Ms. Jacobson also aided the publication of a mentoring manual, written by the Institute for Women’s Policy Research. “She connected us and lifted us up,” Linda Foley, former president of the Berger-Marks Foundation, wrote in a tribute, referring to Ms. Jacobson’s work creating networks of women. Ms. Jacobson encouraged the foundation to sponsor young women to attend an annual summer school hosted by the United Association for Labor Education. Foley continued: “Year after year for almost a decade, Berger-Marks, at Carolyn’s insistence, would provide opportunities for young women union members to learn about organizing, collective bargaining and worker representation, as well as develop personal leadership skills at these schools.” Survivors include a brother. Read more  Washington Post obituaries  Bob Dorough, who set numbers and grammar to music in ‘Schoolhouse Rock!,’ dies at 94 Michael Healy, Army major general who led Green Berets in Vietnam, dies at 91 Richard Jenrette, noted investment banker, dies at 89