OTTAWA — A white rental van careened into pedestrians on a sidewalk in suburban Toronto on early Monday afternoon, striking eight to 10 people, according to media reports. It was not immediately clear what the extent of the injuries was, nor whether the driver deliberately targeted the pedestrians. Police closed the area near Yonge and Finch streets, busy arteries in the northern part of the sprawling city, which is Canada’s largest. Police said the driver was in custody. “He started going down on the sidewalk and crumbling down people one by one,” Ali Shaker, who was driving down Yonge Street, told CTV News. “He just destroyed so many people’s lives.” He said the driver was traveling at an estimated 35 to 45 miles an hour, adding that he saw a baby stroller flying in the air. Nick Santa, who was studying at a nearby Starbucks coffee shop, told Global TV News the driver appeared to be in control of the vehicle. “He just drove straight through and he managed to make a perfect turn at the corner too.” Canadian news outlets broadcast video footage taken by a bystander with a cellphone, showing what appeared to be the arrest of the driver by a Toronto police officer. A man clad in black, presumably the driver, is seen standing beside the Ryder rental van stopped on the sidewalk with its front end damaged. A police office confronts the man, who has his arms raised, and tells him repeatedly to surrender. At the end, the man in black is seen on the ground and is handcuffed. The incident, which occurred just before 1:30 p.m., prompted police to shut down the area near the North York Civic Center, a municipal facility. Transit officials closed a nearby subway line. In Ottawa, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told journalists as he entered Parliament that “our hearts go out to anyone affected” and that he was monitoring the situation closely. Canada’s Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale told reporters that police forces from several jursidicitions were cooperating in the investigation of the incident. Read more Canadians’ love affair with Justin Trudeau is over After Trump’s TPS decision, Canada tells Salvadorans: Please don’t come here  Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news