It’s time for Donald Trump to man up and stop casting about for other folks to blame for his troubles. The dire straits in which he finds himself are largely of his own making. It was not “Access Hollywood” or Billy Bush, but Trump who bragged about his sexual abuse of women. It was not The Post, the New York Times, CNN or MSNBC that introduced Trump to adult-film star Stormy Daniels and Playboy model Karen McDougal, both of whom claim to have had affairs with him a decade ago. opinions   Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false   Please provide a valid email address. No news organizations had a hand in Trump’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen, arranging a payment of $130,000 to Daniels days before the presidential election to keep her from talking about the man who was then the Republican nominee. It was McDougal, not a fake news reporter, who disclosed that she sold her story about the alleged affair with Trump to the National Enquirer, which did not publish it. And journalists certainly didn’t make Trump deny knowledge of the hush-money payment to Daniels or get him to suggest that the media ask Cohen where the money came from. It was Trump on his own, mouthing off on Air Force One last week, who professed ignorance and then threw Cohen under the bus. Hillary Clinton, regardless of Trump’s attacks, did not produce the intelligence community’s finding that Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election with the aim of hurting her and helping him. Neither did Clinton order the firing of FBI Director James B. Comey — although she probably would have been delighted if Comey had opted for a major career change months before voters went to the polls. It was Trump, not Democratic National Committee operatives, who asked Comey (according to Comey) to drop the investigation of Michael Flynn, then the national security adviser; Trump who hired Flynn against the advice of President Barack Obama; Trump’s own handpicked national security adviser who later pleaded guilty to making false statements to the FBI about conversations with then-Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Just as it was Trump who back in March 2016 chose the now-indicted, Russia-connected Paul Manafort to chair his presidential campaign. Trump and his team, not Obama loyalists embedded in the government, initiated the harebrained action that led to the creation of a special counsel. Trump can whine all he wants, but Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein didn’t elbow himself into the Russia probe. He was brought in by Trump after Trump’s rash and self-serving decision to fire Comey. Then Rosenstein brought Robert S. Mueller III and his small army of prosecutors and FBI agents into the mix — a toxic one, from Trump’s standpoint. In connection with Russia’s attempts to throw the election to Trump, it was Trump businesses drawing big bucks from Russian investors and oligarchs and his pro-Russian sympathy that focused attention on his dalliances with the Kremlin. Ah, but what should Americans expect from an undisciplined, vindictive and now scared-silly Trump. We should know by now that with self-absorbed Trump, a moment’s thought is a moment wasted. Trump should stop with the pouting and finger-pointing. He, not Nancy Pelosi or Charles E. Schumer, placed himself in the position of presiding over a budget deficit projected to top $800 billion in 2018 and reach a frightening $1 trillion in 2020. It’s time for Donald Trump to suck it up and (with apologies to Shakespeare) face the truth: The fault, dear Donald, is not in your stars, but in yourself. Read more from Colbert King’s archive. Read more: E.J. Dionne Jr.: Trump’s politics of outrage is failing him Kathleen Parker: We’ve seen this movie before. It ended with impeachment. Eugene Robinson: It’s not your imagination. Trump is getting worse. Ruth Marcus: Trump won’t be able to buy his way out of trouble this time Max Boot: Trump is making less sense than ever