Given that LeBron James had just had a massive game against the Pacers, helping his Cavaliers win Wednesday’s Game 2 of their playoff series, TNT viewers could not have been surprised that he was picked for the postgame interview. What stunned — and angered — many viewers was that TNT’s Allie LaForce used the opportunity to ask the Cleveland star for his immediate reaction to the death of the wife of Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich. [The NBA mourns the death of Gregg Popovich’s wife] The news of the death of Erin Popovich, at age 67, broke while the Cavs-Pacers game was being played. Several NBA players who were not active Wednesday offered their condolences to the 69-year-old Spurs coach and San Antonio’s organization. As many noted, James responded to the question gracefully. He expressed his “love” for Popovich, called the news “devastating” and told LaForce, “The NBA family, we stick together. I know we compete every night, but something like this happens, and it just puts everything in perspective.” If James handled the moment well, many thought the same could not be said of TNT. The network’s own tweeted clip of the interview was met with a torrent of critical replies, while more than a few looked for LaForce’s most recent tweet, which was unrelated, and used it to express their displeasure with her. Disgusting to not let him find out in private. Some defended TNT and LaForce, pointing out that if she didn’t ask James about Erin Popovich’s death, someone else in the media surely would have soon after, in the postgame news conference. “Allie is working for TNT and on-court was when TNT was going to get its questions in to LeBron, not the presser. Producer might have been in her ear telling her to ask,” Pat Forde of Yahoo Sports said on Twitter, adding that it was a “difficult spot” that James handled “with consummate class.” Calling it a “legit” question, veteran sports-media journalist Richard Deitsch said that LaForce “asked it directly and with compassion.” In his opinion, “Both people were pros here.” Deitsch subsequently tweeted that, according to a Turner Sports source, “LaForce gave LeBron James a heads up prior to the Popovich question.” At halftime of the Timberwolves-Rockets game, which followed Cavs-Pacers, “NBA on TNT” host Ernie Johnson said that LaForce had asked James if he wanted to comment on Erin Popovich, and that the Cleveland star had agreed to do so. In other words, he wasn’t completely blindsided by the tragic news and the request for a reaction. However, that still leaves room for some viewers to feel outraged that the question was asked at all, at least in that setting. Read more from The Post: NBA playoffs: Updates and analysis from The Post’s Tim Bontemps sports  early-lead Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Break newsletter National sports news, in your inbox daily. Please provide a valid email address. Seth Jones is following his father’s path — on ice, not the basketball court For the Spurs, the most important game left this season is the Kawhi Leonard standoff College tennis player apologizes for ‘grossly inappropriate’ jokes that caused campus furor