LONDON — Claire Foy, who stars on Netflix’s hit series “The Crown,” isn't the only British woman paid less than her male counterpart. New figures released in Britain show that nearly 8 in 10 companies and public-sector organizations in the United Kingdom pay men more than women. Under legislation introduced last year, all companies in Britain with more than 250 employees had until midnight Wednesday to publish their gender pay gap data. Britain is one of the first countries in the world to introduce mandatory gender pay gap reporting. The long-standing issue of pay parity in Britain and elsewhere was highlighted, once again, when producers on “The Crown” revealed that Foy, who portrays Queen Elizabeth II on the series, earned less than her co-star Matt Smith, who has a supporting role as Prince Philip. [ How new pay gap disclosures in Britain could push companies to promote women ] Writing in the Telegraph earlier this week, British Prime Minister Theresa May said that she was committed to “tackling the burning injustices which mar our society. One such is the gender pay gap.” Britain joins countries like Australia in requiring organizations to release data on gender pay, but neither country goes as far as places like Iceland, where the onus is on employers to prove they are paying men and women equally. Campaigners in Britain say that this kind of transparency — the data is available for anyone to peruse — will help shame employers into making changes. Under the new rules, businesses will have to update their figures annually, which advocates hope will encourage them to take steps to close the gap. [ ‘The Crown’ producers apologize to Claire Foy and Matt Smith after salary controversy ] About 10,000 companies filed their data to the British government’s Equality Office by Wednesday’s midnight deadline. About 1,500 failed to meet the deadline, according to the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC), the watchdog that will take action if companies don’t comply within a month. Those companies could face fines. “Reporting gender pay gaps is not optional; it is a legal requirement, as well as being the right thing to do,” said Rebecca Hilsenrath, chief executive of the EHRC. “We will soon be starting enforcement against all employers that haven't published.” Companies with large gender pay gaps included Millwall Holdings, the parent company of the professional soccer club Millwall FC, which reported a gap of 80 percent, and Boux Avenue, a chain of lingerie stores, which had a gap of 75.7 percent. The budget airline Ryanair had a pay gap of 71.8 percent. Here's the top 10, as of 10am. Ryanair is still the most well-known name. #GenderPayGap pic.twitter.com/ffl4IbAg5H According to data published in 2017, the average gender pay gap in Britain stands at 18.4 percent. In response to the data, some lawmakers have been tweeting with the hashtag #paymetoo, a campaign encouraging employees to talk to co-workers about what they earn and to raise these issues in the workplace. Amber Rudd, Britain’s home secretary who is also the minister for women and equalities, encouraged businesses to take further steps to reduce the gap. world  worldviews Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. “Closing the gender pay gap also makes economic sense. Research shows that improving women’s participation in the labor market could add £150 billion to the economy by 2025. That’s a number we cannot afford to ignore,” she said. Sam Smethers, chief executive of the Fawcett Society, a women’s rights organization, called the reporting “a game changer.” “It forces employers to look at themselves and understand their organizations and it prompts employees to ask some hard questions,” she said in a statement. “But even better than that, finally women are realizing that they have a right to talk about pay and they cannot be silenced.”