Chicago White Sox pitcher Danny Farquhar remains hospitalized after a brain hemorrhage from a ruptured aneurysm caused him to collapse in the dugout during Friday’s game. Farquhar passed out after throwing 15 pitches in the top half of the sixth inning in a 10-0 loss and, after regaining consciousness, he was taken to Rush University Medical Center, the White Sox said in a statement that called him “currently stable, but in critical condition. His teammates, who were waiting for updates, played the Houston Astros in a Saturday night game and lost, 10-1. ‘‘He’s alive, he’s got a chance, and that’s what I’m hanging on to,’’ pitching coach Don Cooper told the Sun-Times. ‘‘And prayers are more necessary than talk.’’ After meeting with Manager Rick Renteria, players headed out from a somber clubhouse to take batting practice, with “D.F. 43” written in silver on the front left side of their black caps and his jersey hanging in the dugout. In a Sunday morning tweet, teammate Nicky Delmonico posted a photo of Farquhar’s jersey and a request for prayers. “All that matters is family and life,” pitcher James Shields said (via the Chicago Tribune). “He’s a brother of ours and a great teammate. “It crushes us in this clubhouse. Nothing really matters baseball-wise when something like that happens. When you see one of your brothers go down like that it’s not very fun to watch. He’s such a resilient human being and we’re praying for him and hope everything goes well.” Farquhar, 31, is in his seventh season and second with the White Sox after signing as a free agent midway through last season. He has appeared in 23 games for the Sox and has a 4.84 ERA. ‘‘When he left here, he had a strong heartbeat, a good pulse and was breathing well,’’ Renteria said. ‘‘EMTs came in and made sure they gave him oxygen and they got him on the gurney, and before he left he was conscious. He was able to speak to his wife a little bit yesterday.’’ Read more from The Post: To replace Gregg Popovich, Spurs turn to Ettore Messina, ‘one of the best coaches in the world’ NBA playoffs: Updates and analysis from The Post’s Tim Bontemps Seth Jones is following his father’s path — on ice, not the basketball court For the Spurs, the most important game left this season is the Kawhi Leonard standoff College tennis player apologizes for ‘grossly inappropriate’ jokes that caused campus furor