President Trump said Monday that his administration would be making “major decisions” about its response to a suspected chemical attack in Syria within the next 24 to 48 hours, decrying the action as “atrocious” and “horrible.” “We are very concerned when a thing like that can happen,” Trump said at the outset of a Cabinet meeting while reporters were present. “This is about humanity, and it can’t be allowed to happen.” U.S. officials said Sunday that they were weighing options to strike Syrian government targets after at least 40 people were killed in the opposition-held town of Douma, roughly 10 miles from the Syrian capital. Trump said Sunday on Twitter that there would be a “big price to pay” for the attack. His comments on Monday were his first publicly spoken remarks on the subject. “If it’s the Russians, if it’s Syria, if it’s Iran, if it’s all of them together, we’ll figure it out,” Trump said. [Syria says strike on military base carried out by Israeli warplanes] Asked if Russian President Vladi­mir Putin bears any responsibility for the attack, Trump said: “He may, yeah, he may. And if he does, it’s going to be very tough, very tough.” “Everybody’s going to pay a price. He will, everybody will,” Trump said. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday that Russian aid workers had visited the area and found no evidence that chemical weapons were used. Russia is Syria’s main military partner and ally and has protected Syrian President Bashar al-Assad both militarily and diplomatically for years. Russia helped the United States negotiate an agreement with Assad five years ago that was supposed to rid the country of chemical weapons, and the United States and other nations have held Russia responsible for allowing Assad to retain and use these weapons. Asked by a reporter if he had any doubt who was behind the attack, Trump said: “To me there’s not much a doubt, but the generals will figure it out.” He said “nothing is off the table” when asked if U.S. military action is an option. Trump said it has been “very hard to get people in” to determine what happened, which he said was a sign of Syria’s culpability. Any possible military response from the United States and France, and possibly the British, is predicated on the ability to verify a chemical weapon was used. That is made more difficult because the Syrians and Russians are blocking access to the affected area, according to a State Department official who spoke on the condition of anonymity about the process of verification underway. The United States and its allies seem to be building their case on a foundation of circumstantial evidence to point to the Syrian government as the most likely culprit. Analysts have been looking at videos, photographs and social media postings taken at the scene of the attack and reports from medical professionals who attended to the victims. They are “consistent with an asphyxiation agent and of a nerve agent of some type,” the State Department official said. U.S. officials also are citing an “established pattern of chemical weapon use” by the Syrian military. “As President Trump clearly stated, there will be consequences for this unacceptable atrocity,” the State Department official said. “We call on all members of the international community to share any information related to this attack and to hold the perpetrators and their sponsors accountable for the use of these heinous weapons.” The U.N. Security Council is preparing to meet in an emergency session Monday afternoon to discuss the attack and consider whether to launch an independent investigation, which would require access to collect physical evidence. The Security Council meeting is shaping up to be a rematch of previous debates on civilian casualties in Syria. Though the council unanimously approved a cease-fire resolution in February, no truce has ever been stuck. politics   Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. Russia voted for the cease-fire but has repeatedly used its veto power as a permanent member to block any measure that threatens a Syrian offensive against rebels, largely to protect the Assad government. Russia wants to preserve access to its only naval base in the Middle East and preserve its influence in the region through Assad.  Carol Morello contributed to this report.  