Avicii, a Swedish-born electronic dance DJ who performed sold-out concerts for feverish fans around the world and also had massive success on American pop radio, was found dead on April 20 in Muscat, Oman. He was 28. Publicist Diana Baron confirmed the death but provided no further details. Avicii had in the past suffered acute pancreatitis, in part because of excessive drinking. After having his gallbladder and appendix removed in 2014, he canceled a series of shows in an attempt to recover. His death comes just days after he was nominated for a 2018 Billboard Music Award for top dance/electronic album for his EP “Avicii (01).” Born Tim Bergling, Avicii was an international pop star, performing his well-known electronic dance songs before sometimes hundreds of thousands at music festivals where he was the headline act. His popular sound even sent him to the top of the charts and landed him on U.S. radio. His most recognized song, “Wake Me Up,” was a multiplatinum success and peaked at No. 4 on Billboard’s Hot 100 chart. On the dance charts, he had seven top-10 hits. In 2016, the performer announced he was retiring from the road, but he continued to produce songs and albums. Avicii was part of the wave of DJ-producers, including David Guetta, Calvin Harris and Swedish House Mafia, who broke out on the scene as lead performers in their own right, earning international hits, fame, awards and more, like typical pop stars. Avicii continued to collaborate with more high-profile acts, producing Madonna’s “Devil Pray” and the Coldplay hits “A Sky Full of Stars” and “Hymn for the Weekend.” Bergling was born in Stockholm on Sept. 8, 1989. He earned his first Grammy nomination, for the 2012 awards show, for a collaboration with Guetta. He gained more fame for the Etta James-sampled dance jam “Levels,” which reached No. 1 in Sweden. He was the subject of Levan Tsikurishvili’s 2017 documentary “Avicii: True Stories.” “It’s been a very crazy journey,” Avicii told the Hollywood Reporter in 2016. “I started producing when I was 16. I started touring when I was 18. From that point on, I just jumped into 100 percent. When I look back on my life, I think, ‘Whoa, did I do that?’ It was the best time of my life in a sense. It came with a price — a lot of stress, a lot of anxiety for me — but it was the best journey of my life.” — Associated Press Read more  Washington Post obituaries  David Edgerton, Burger King co-founder who helped make the Whopper, dies at 90 Bruno Sammartino, ‘Living Legend’ champion of pro wrestling, dies at 82 Carl Kasell, NPR broadcaster who brought gravitas and goofiness to the airwaves, dies at 84