With Ryan Zimmerman off to a slow start, Washington Nationals Manager Dave Martinez made his first notable lineup change at the helm on Tuesday, moving the veteran first baseman down to fifth in the batting order from the cleanup spot against the Braves. Anthony Rendon was dropped from second to fourth, while Trea Turner was moved from sixth to second. The changes were implemented after Zimmerman began the season 3 for 31 with nine strikeouts. On Monday, he went 0 for 4 with two strikeouts. The second strikeout came in the seventh inning after the Braves intentionally walked Harper with a runner on second and first base open. The Nationals hope Rendon will provide more protection for Harper, who leads baseball with six home runs and 16 walks. As expected, the Nationals reinstated catcher Miguel Montero from the paternity list on Tuesday. To create a spot on the roster, they placed Jhonatan Solano on the disabled list. The club said Solano has bone spurs in his right elbow. Montero returns as Matt Wieters, the Nationals’ Opening Day catcher, begins a rehab stint a few miles south in Potomac on Tuesday. Wieters has been on the disabled list since April 2 with a left oblique strain. He is eligible for reinstatement on Wednesday, though Nationals Manager Dave Martinez hinted that Wieters could play two games in Potomac. That would push Wieters’s return to Thursday. Whenever Wieters returns, the Nationals will have to decide what to do with Pedro Severino, who has played well since replacing Wieters on the roster. Do they send him down to the minors? Do they carry three catchers, which Martinez mentioned is a possibility? Or do they do something else to accommodate the 24-year-old? Montero is 0 for 11 with two walks in four games this season. He pulled himself out of Thursday’s home opener because, Martinez said, he was dealing with migraines. Despite Montero’s return, Severino is in Tuesday’s starting lineup. He’s 6 for 15 with two doubles, four walks, and a stolen base in six games. BRAVES (6-4) NATIONALS (5-5) Adam Eaton LF Trea Turner SS Bryce Harper RF Anthony Rendon 3B Ryan Zimmerman 1B Michael A. Taylor CF wilmer Difo 2B Pedro Severino C Stephen Strasburg RHP Read more: Max Scherzer joined some elite company (again) with his performance Monday Pedro Severino may have earned himself a permanent spot on the Nationals roster sports  washington-nationals Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. Max Scherzer’s latest masterpiece helps Nationals end skid against Braves Nationals top prospect Victor Robles leaves game with injury after awkward landing It’s early but fair to wonder: Will Nationals bullpen be good enough?