SACRAMENTO — The “Golden State Killer” mystified authorities for decades, leaving behind a notorious string of unsolved brutal rapes and murders across California that dated to the 1970s and 1980s. Then, this week, there was a sudden break in the case due to what prosecutors called an “innovative” DNA investigative approach: Authorities had found and arrested a man who they had never before considered a suspect. The innovation authorities described took advantage of modern DNA capabilities and the nation’s growing fascination with using DNA technology to track personal histories and lineage. They took DNA obtained from the Golden State Killer’s crime scenes — which authorities said encompassed at least a dozen murders and 45 rapes — and placed it into a genealogy website designed for researchers and those seeking to build out their family tree. Comparing the DNA they had with the database’s records provided a hit, helping police narrow down the pool of possible suspects, prosecutors say, eventually zeroing in on 72-year-old Joseph James DeAngelo, a former police officer and retired mechanic. Once on his tail, police were able to obtain a sample of his DNA from a discarded item, DNA they say was a match with the crime scenes. [Authorities used DNA, genealogy website, to track down ‘Golden State Killer’ suspect decades after crimes] How investigators ultimately identified DeAngelo — with the help of a distant relative’s genetic information that was voluntarily uploaded to a website — could have far-reaching law enforcement and privacy implications. That the DNA data wound up being used in a criminal investigation came as a surprise to many, including GEDmatch, the genealogy database that said it was unknowingly utilized by California investigators in Golden State Killer case. “Even the people who consent by uploading their DNA often don’t imagine the ways their information will be used,” said Erin Murphy, a New York University law professor who researches technology in criminal justice. “They aren’t really thinking through the implications of creating this treasure trove of data that can be mined.” Representatives from 23andMe and Ancestry.com — two of the biggest online genealogy services, which have millions of people in their databases — quickly said they were not involved in the case, and they emphasized their independence from law enforcement. 23andMe said the company does not give customer information to law enforcement officials. Ancestry.com said it “will not share any information with law enforcement unless compelled to by valid legal process.” In a report posted online, Ancestry.com said it “received 34 valid law enforcement requests for user information in 2017,” all of which were related to identity theft and credit card misuse. “We received no requests for information related to genetic information of any Ancestry member, and we did not disclose any such information to law enforcement,” the company said. [‘We found the needle in the haystack’: Golden State Killer suspect arrested after sudden DNA match] GEDmatch is a relatively bare-bones, open-source database that collects and shares genetic data that people upload directly, often data first obtained from one of the larger services. In 2015, the company said it had more than 130,000 people registered, more than 200,000 samples in its DNA database, and more than 75 million individuals in its genealogical records. The company reveals in its privacy policy that its tools are “for comparison and research purposes” and makes clear that it is not the place to go if you want your material kept private. “In the end, if you require absolute privacy and security, we must ask that you do not upload your data to GEDmatch,” the policy states. Curtis Rogers, GEDmatch’s co-founder, said in a statement that while “we were not approached by law enforcement or anyone else about this case or about the DNA, it has always been GEDmatch’s policy to inform users that the database could be used for other uses.” Rogers also said that if anyone is “concerned about non-genealogical uses of your DNA, you should not upload your DNA to the database and/or you should remove DNA that has already been uploaded.” Former Sacramento County Sheriff’s Department detectives Richard Shelby and Carol Daly, two of the original investigators on what was also known as the East Area Rapist case, were gobsmacked by the techniques used to capture the man they trailed decades ago. “I think it’s revolutionary,” Shelby said. “It’s brilliant and good thinking on their part. If criminals out there know they can be tracked down this way, they are going to have to try to not leave their DNA at the scene, and that’s nearly impossible. It’s one of the best crime-fighting tools to come in a long, long time.” Daly, who placed calls on the investigation via pay phones and typed up reports on a typewriter, said the sheer power of the DNA matching technique holds great promise. “When you really compare it, we were in the Dark Ages,” Day said. “Blood-testing serology was just coming into play. Dusting for prints was the big thing.” [All we know about Joseph DeAngelo, the Golden State Killer suspect who became a suburban grandfather] The use of the genetic database could open up avenues for investigators probing other cold cases, but it left numerous questions unanswered, said Murphy, the New York University professor. “Were there hundreds or thousands of other DNA samples that didn’t match?” she said of the police investigation. “Are there entire families now in a database because they sampled all the men in that family?” Prosecutors, meanwhile, see the genealogical databases as a valuable tool and see privacy issues as a minor concern. “Why in God’s name would we come up with a reason that we not be able to use it, on the argument that it intrudes onto someone’s privacy?” said Josh Marquis of the National District Attorneys Association. “Everything’s a trade-off. Obviously we want to preserve privacy. But on the other hand, if we’re able to use this technology without exposing someone’s deepest darkest secrets, while solving these really horrible crimes, I think it’s a valid trade-off.” Sacramento District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert said in an interview Friday that investigators spent painstaking months trying to crack the code of DNA they recovered from one of the crimes scenes associated with the Golden State Killer. She defended the decision to plug the DNA into an online database, despite some privacy concerns others have raised. “We have an evolving world which is how I look at it,” Schubert said. “I’m sure those questions will be raised through this court process … I also know that we are sitting here today with an individual in custody for probably one of the most significant serial case of all time.” Steve Grippi, the chief deputy district attorney, said uploading the suspect’s DNA to an “open source DNA database” produced a potential familial match with a distant relative of Joseph DeAngelo. From there, investigators spent months building out a family tree of the distant relative, using DNA matching techniques to find people that had a closer familial relationship with the person who left the DNA at the crime scene, Grippi said. That information was supplemented by other sources of data, such as the person’s age and location they lived, to lead them specifically to DeAngelo, he said. DeAngelo was placed under surveillance and detectives waited for him to discard an unnamed item that contained his DNA, Schubert said. That sample was tested against the DNA material collected from the scene, producing a match on April 20. Schubert, who was a dinner that Friday evening, saw her phone ring. “Are you sitting down?” Grippi asked her. He told her the they had a DNA match for the Golden State Killer. “I probably said a few times with some expletives that he better not be kidding me,” Schubert said. The investigation went into high gear. To be sure they had their man, investigators collected one more DNA sample from something DeAngelo discarded. The results were returned on April 23: another match. They obtained arrest warrants for DeAngelo, who was taken into custody the next day. Searching through the DNA of relatives to find suspects — otherwise known as familial DNA — has long been controversial. Ten states allow familial searching within their borders, while the practice is banned in Maryland and the District of Columbia. Kenneth Mains, founder of the American Investigative Society of Cold Cases, said he had “personally run DNA markers through many genealogical sites in order to help move a case forward.” “Any lead you can get could help you break the case, even if it’s just telling me what geographical area someone’s ancestors are from,” Mains said. “As an investigator, you will take that lead.” Legal experts said it appeared prosecutors acted properly in the Golden State case, and they compared the use of public genetic databases to the way authorities are allowed to search other information handed over to third parties, such as telephone companies and banks. “It doesn’t sound like the government actors did anything wrong in obtaining this,” said Barbara McQuade, a law professor at the University of Michigan and a former U.S. attorney. “This is an area that courts will have to scrutinize. The law often lags behind where technology has evolved.” McQuade said it could involve “rethinking whether this doctrine that was developed for records, phone records and bank records, applies to this world of DNA.” [She stalked the Golden State Killer until she died. Some think her work led to the suspect’s arrest.] The Supreme Court heard a case challenging that third-party doctrine in Carpenter v. United States, which centers on how authorities tracked a robbery suspect through his cellphone’s location. The justices suggested during arguments in the case that they could be open to new restrictions on how the government can access such private, digital information, though they have not yet handed down a ruling. “It seems like we might see a similar kind of analysis coming into play with regard to DNA,” McQuade said. “Because I think most of us have the sense that that feels very private, very personal, and even if you have given it up to one of these third-party services, maybe there should be a higher level of security.” David Kaye, a professor of law at Penn State, said the DNA information on such sites is not “substantially different” from bank and phone records. “Unless we rethink law about third parties and what you expose to the public more generally … I don’t see a huge difference, a big enough difference to create a different constitutional rule,” he said, noting that people who submit their material to such services could argue that they only wanted to do things like identify relatives and never intended to hand that information over to police. “What we as a society need to ask is, how private do we want that to be?” McQuade said the Golden State Killer case offers a fascinating vehicle for discussing the issue. “It sounds like the kind of offender that most people are happy has been apprehended, yet this causes us to really struggle with whether we want to have these techniques or not,” she said. “Remember, even though they can be used against someone like him, they can be used against everybody.” Berman, Harwell and Jackman reported from Washington. Avi Selk contributed to this report, which has been updated.