Attorney General Jeff Sessions told a Senate panel Wednesday that he believes President Trump does not need approval from the Justice Department’s pardon attorney to pardon anyone. “The President of the United States clearly has the constitutional power to execute pardons,” without conferring with the Office of the Pardon Attorney, Sessions said. Sen. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) pressed Sessions to explain a previous statement Sessions made at a congressional hearing that it would be an abuse of power for the president to pardon someone without first going through the Justice Department’s pardon attorney. “In the Obama administration, was there any pardon that didn’t go through the pardon attorney,” Van Hollen asked, pointing out that Trump did not confer with the pardon attorney in the pardons of Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio and Lewis “Scooter” Libby, the former chief of staff to Vice President Richard B. Cheney convicted of perjury and obstruction of justice. “I don’t know,” Sessions said. Van Hollen said that all pardons in the George W. Bush and Obama administrations first went through the pardon attorney. During the hearing before the Senate Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, where Sessions was testifying about the Justice Department’s proposed $28.4 billion budget request for 2019, he also declined to say whether he has recused himself from the investigation into President Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, whose office was raided by FBI agents April 9. That development was reported by Bloomberg this week. “It is the policy of the Department of Justice that those who have recused themselves not state the details of it or confirm the existence of an investigation or the scope of that investigation,” Sessions told the panel. Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.),the ranking member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, asked Sessions whether he would step down if Trump fires Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein or special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, who is investigating Russian interference in 2016 presidential election. “That calls for a speculative answer,” Sessions replied. “I’m not able to do that.” [Sessions told White House that Rosenstein’s firing could prompt his departure, too] Leahy said he was deeply concerned about the “president’s relentless and baseless attacks” on senior Justice Department officials. “You’re at the helm of a Justice Department under siege,” Leahy said. “We’re in total agreement and care deeply about the integrity of the Justice Department. I worry that the walls intended to protect the integrity of the department ... are at the risk of crumbling.” While Sessions would not address questions about his relationship with Trump or the Russia investigation, he did discuss other issues the Justice Department faces, saying it is “going after drug companies, doctors and pharmacists” who, he said, are fueling the nation’s opioid epidemic. “We are simply prescribing too many drugs in this country,” Sessions said. “With powerful drugs like fentanyl and heroin on our streets, we are experiencing overdose death rates like we have never seen in this country,” he added. “It must end. We are out of time — we have to see results now.” In his opening statement, Sen. Jerry Moran (R-Kan.) highlighted several of Sessions’s priorities that he wanted to ask about, including combating the opioid crisis. “Opioid overdoses in the U.S. have surpassed motor vehicle accidents as the number one cause of accidental death in the country,” Moran said. “Each day, 115 individuals die from opioid-related deaths. This crisis needs to be aggressively addressed.” Moran also asked Sessions about a question the Justice Department wants asked in the 2020 census, which asks those surveyed about their citizenship. The question, approved by the Commerce Department for inclusion in the census, has drawn a legal challenge from civil rights groups. They charge that it will discourage noncitizens, especially unauthorized immigrants, from taking part and result in an undercount. Sessions said he felt it was “common sense ... to ask whether or not an individual” is a U.S. citizen. He noted that the question previously had been in the census — it was last included in 1950. “It can help us in determining a number of issues, particularly in our civil rights division,” he said. He said he was limited in what he could say because of the litigation, but offered to provide the senator with the “legal reasons” why the question is justified. Sessions added that the question is the last one on the form. “It shouldn’t scare people. They don’t have to answer it, really. ... I believe the concerns over it are overblown.” Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) pressed Sessions on his attempting to withhold federal law enforcement grant money from jurisdictions that have policies that protect undocumented immigrants, and asked when he expected to actually distribute money to places awarded grants. Sessions said he hoped to dole out money “sooner rather than later,” but defended his crackdown on so-called “sanctuary” jurisdictions, saying he had only imposed “minor” requirements, such as giving notice when suspected undocumented immigrants were about to be released, and allowing federal authorities to pick up such people at local jails. Matt Zapotosky contributed to this report.