A hit from Washington Capitals forward Tom Wilson on Pittsburgh Penguins defenseman Brian Dumoulin is under scrutiny after Wilson made contact with Dumoulin’s head during the second period of Sunday’s Game 2. Dumoulin went straight to the Penguins’ dressing room after the hit and didn’t return to the game, which Washington won, 4-1, to tie the second-round series. The NHL’s Department of Player Safety is in the process of reviewing the collision closely, a league source told The Washington Post. Since Wilson was suspended twice this preseason, he’s considered a repeat offender, which could lead to harsher discipline if the league decides Sunday’s hit warrants a suspension. There was no penalty called on the play, but in situations with a potential illegal check to the head, the Department of Player Safety will first try to establish whether the head was the main point of contact and, if so, whether the contact was avoidable. Wilson’s shoulder making contact with Dumoulin’s head is fairly evident, but the league will have to decide whether Rule 48.1.iii applies: “whether the opponent materially changed the position of his body or head immediately prior to or simultaneously with the hit in a way that significantly contributed to the head contact.” Here are two angles of the hit: “Obviously it’s a big collision,” Wilson said. “I’m at no point trying to target the head at all. I’m skating, backchecking, trying to do my job, and unfortunately there’s a collision there. I’ve watched it briefly, and I don’t realize what I can really do any different. At the last second, I see [Alex Ovechkin] coming in, and you can see me bracing, too … and I end up getting kind of taken out as well. I’ve got to analyze it a little more. Obviously you never want to see a guy go down, so hoping he’s better and we’ll see what happens. … “I think if you watch it at game speed, I don’t even alter my movement at all. I’m just skating straight. The way I look at it: There’s no way I can get his head from that point where I am. He stops and turns and I’m kind of right there as [Ovechkin is] coming in pretty aggressively. It’s a collision. I end up getting blown right out of the water, too. It’s a bit of an unfortunate play that he got hurt.” Wilson was asked if, whether intended or not, he made contact with Dumoulin’s head. “I’m not going to say that I didn’t get him in the head,” Wilson said. “It wasn’t a body check to the head. I think I grazed his head as I’m skating by, as he’s getting hit by Ovi. If you watch it from multiple angles, you don’t see me lunge into his head or anything. I’m skating there. His head actually kind of hits the bottom of my arm. So, you know what? I was surprised when I kind of got up, that he was down and out like that. I mean, not out, but down on the ground and collecting himself. You never want to see a guy go down. He’s a warrior. We’ve played against him, and he’s a solid guy. Hopefully he’s all right, and we can deal with that and keep moving.” Capitals Coach Barry Trotz said, “I just thought it was a hit where two guys get sandwiched.” Penguins Coach Mike Sullivan said he had an opinion on the hit, but he declined to share it. His players weren’t as tight-lipped. “He made contact with his head,” Pittsburgh captain Sidney Crosby said. “I mean, that was the first point of contact. Given his history, and things like that, I’m sure they’ll take a good look at it.” Dumoulin has averaged more than 22 minutes for the Penguins in the playoffs as a top-pairing defenseman. Wilson is coming off a career season with 14 goals and 21 assists, playing mostly on the top line with Ovechkin, and it would be a significant blow to Washington if he has to miss any time, especially with fellow top-six winger Andre Burakovsky still sidelined. Wilson was suspended for the first four games of the regular season for boarding during the preseason, and in Washington’s first-round series against Columbus, his hit on Blue Jackets center Alexander Wennberg was reviewed by the league. The video replays available didn’t sufficiently prove that the main point of contact was Wennberg’s head, so Wilson escaped suspension. Wennberg missed three games. In October, Wilson and Capitals General Manager Brian MacLellan met with Department of Player Safety head George Parros in Calgary to help Wilson understand how to avoid supplemental discipline. “He does a good job of educating himself,” MacLellan said of Wilson before the postseason. “Me, him and Parros went over videos and just what they were looking at when he was being considered for suspensions and fines and other examples throughout the league. So he’s spent a lot of time educating himself on what they’re looking at and how they look at it and what’s the certain things they look for. So I give him a lot of credit for how he’s evolved with that.” More on the Capitals: How the Capitals improved their defensive play in time for the postseason A two-goal lead is hockey’s most dangerous. For the Capitals, it’s a grenade. ‘When the pressure is on,’ so is Penguins goalie Matt Murray Barry Svrluga: One thing we know about these Capitals: They can’t handle prosperity Many Penguins fans have more sympathy than hatred for the Capitals