The first round of the NBA playoffs continues today with four Game 5s, including two possible elimination games. Follow along here for the latest analysis and commentary from The Post’s NBA reporter Tim Bontemps, and ask him questions in the comments section. Catch up on last night’s games here.   The NBA playoffs officially have a Game 7. In a series where the home team has held serve throughout, the Bucks continued the trend Thursday night, beating the Celtics, 97-86, to send the series back to Boston for a winner-take-all game Saturday night at 8 p.m. Giannis Antetokounmpo led the Bucks with 31 points, 14 rebounds, four assists and two steals in 41 minutes, leading Milwaukee to within one win of its first playoff series victory since advancing to the Eastern Conference finals in 2001. To get that win, Milwaukee has to become the first team to win on the road in this series, something both teams have failed to do thanks to struggling offensive attacks away from friendly territory. Two teams each with one all-star — Antetokounmpo for Milwaukee, Al Horford for Milwaukee — surrounded by role players have, predictably, had success at home but lacked it on the road. That should give the Celtics for Saturday. But the Bucks had a couple of encouraging signs from this one, notably outscoring the Celtics 25-4 in fast break points, and only turning the ball over 11 times. It also helps that Antetokounmpo is one of the best players in the world, capable of winning a single game by himself. What also should help is slotting Thon Maker into the starting lineup at center in place of Tyler Zeller. Maker was a plus-6 in Game 6, giving the Bucks another shooter to help space the floor, as well as providing them with far more athleticism and rim protection. Maker’s introduction to the series in Game 3 changed everything for Milwaukee, and having him in the starting lineup should give the Bucks a better chance of winning in Game 7. Marcus Smart, meanwhile, has struggled to shoot in his two games back from a thumb injury that caused him to miss the last few weeks of the regular season and the first four games of these playoffs. Smart is now 4-for-16 from the field over the past two games, and while his defensive energy is great, if he keeps bombing away in Game 7, that could become an issue.   How teams perform at the end of quarters will often determine games. As such, in this Game 6, Milwaukee should feel awfully good about its chances. The Bucks ended the first quarter with a 7-0 run, then closed the second quarter with a 14-2 spurt over the final 5:08, good for a 48-39 halftime lead. Milwaukee has an 18-0 edge offensively, a 26-14 edge in points in the paint and a 10-4 edge in points off turnovers, and it’s easy to see how the Bucks find themselves out in front at halftime. It also is no surprise that the home team is playing better offensively in this series, after that’s happened in each of the first five games. Perhaps Boston can change that in the second half, but at this point it seems unlikely. Giannis Antetokounmpo, who appeared to injure his left foot in the second quarter, leads the Bucks with 11 points, while Khris Middleton has nine and Jabari Parker and Eric Bledsoe each have seven. Terry Rozier has 14 points — and has already taken 11 shots — for Boston, while no other player on the Celtics has more than six.   The Bucks had a rough offensive first quarter, but a late surge managed to mitigate the damage. Milwaukee scored the final seven points of the first quarter to pull back to within two, 24-22, despite struggling to get any offense going in halfcourt situations. But the Bucks did a nice job of rushing out in transition whenever they got a chance, getting a few easy baskets early in the quarter to keep themselves in the game. Even still, the Bucks were down nine with 2:06 to go when Aron Baynes made a jumper for Boston. But that was the last basket Boston scored in the quarter, missing its final four shots. Meanwhile, Jabari Parker scored five quick points — on a dunk and a three — before Khris Middleton got Milwaukee back within two with a baseline jumper with 13 seconds remaining. “When we hold it, bad things happen at both ends,” Celtics Coach Brad Stevens said during his between-quarters interview on TNT. “They made some shots. Jabari made a big impact off the bench and Middleton hit a shot. We don’t want him to get going. He’s been killing us all series.” Middleton has three early baskets, but also two early fouls for Milwaukee. The Bucks can ill-afford to lose him for any extended stretch of this game, as he’s been one of Milwaukee’s only two consistent scoring options along with Giannis Antetokounmpo. He leads the Bucks with six points, while Terry Rozier has 11 early on for the Celtics.   The Utah Jazz have Mitt Romney. The Milwaukee Bucks have Bill Clinton. The 42nd President of the United States was in attendance at Game 6 of the first round series between the Boston Celtics and Milwaukee Bucks Thursday night, sitting with Bucks co-owner Marc Lasry, a prominent Democratic party donor. Former President Bill Clinton holding court here courtside at the @BMOHBC. pic.twitter.com/NBC4oaUWKS Unfortunately, Clinton did not sport the same kind of outfit to that Romney did to Game 4 of the Jazz-Thunder series Monday night in Salt Lake City. Romney, who ran for the president both in 2008, when he finished as runner-up to John McCain in the Republican primary, and 2012, when he won the nomination but lost to President Barack Obama in the general election, is now the favorite to replace longtime Utah Republican senator Orrin Hatch, who has announced he is retiring from the Senate. Romney, who sat right behind the scorer’s table, was wearing a personalized No. 5 Jazz jersey, and was caught by TNT’s cameras holding up four fingers and taunting Russell Westbrook went to the bench with his fourth foul late in the first half of what eventually was a Jazz rout in Game 4. The moment quickly caught fire on the internet, both because of the idea of Romney taunting Westbrook and because he was not only wearing a jersey over a button-down shirt, but a personalized one. This game has everything, including Mitt Romney taunting Westbrook lol pic.twitter.com/dGmu2v9RFy Clinton, on the other hand, was in normal political attire, wearing a button-down shirt, blazer and slacks to his courtside seat. The Bucks have to hope that having a prominent politician on hand will provide the same result as Romney’s trip to the Jazz game.   The Boston Celtics and Milwaukee Bucks have held serve at home through the first five games of this series, with Boston winning the first two games, Milwaukee winning the next two and then Boston claiming Game 5 in Marcus Smart’s return from a thumb injury. If Milwaukee is going to be able to keep that streak alive and force a seventh game, it must generate more offense than it did in Game 5. While Smart’s return did nothing to help Boston’s offense — he finished the game 2-for-7 from the field and committed five turnovers in 25 minutes — he was outstanding, as he usually is, defensively. He helped the Celtics hold the Bucks to 36.8 percent shooting overall and 27.4 percent (9-for-33) from three-point range. The Bucks have struggled to generate much of anything offensively in this series outside of Giannis Antetkounmpo and Khris Middleton, though Jabari Parker has finally shown signs of life the last three games. They’ll need to find a way to get some more offense going Thursday night if they want to take this series back to Boston for Game 7 Saturday night.   Stephen Curry, the superstar guard for the Golden State Warriors, has of course been out since late March because of a sprained MCL in his left knee. Game 1 of Golden State’s Western Conference semifinal playoff series against the New Orleans Pelicans will mark exactly five weeks since Curry suffered the injury when JaVale McGee fell into his leg. After Curry practiced with his teammates Thursday, it could mark his debut in these NBA Playoffs. “Did everything,” Warriors Coach Steve Kerr told reporters. “Looked good. I would say he’s questionable for Game 1. We didn’t really scrimmage, but we had contact and a little bit of up and down, controlled scrimmage type stuff and he did that.” Full Steph Curry update via Steve Kerr. Sounds very much like Game 1 is a possibility. pic.twitter.com/CPep1BdmSj Curry had done some light work during Golden State’s first round series against the San Antonio Spurs, but this marked the first time he fully participated in a practice since his injury. And while Kerr said last week Curry “is not going to play anytime soon,” he seemed to change his tune Thursday. “I think it’s been coming along pretty well,” Kerr said. “When we were in San Antonio and I was asked the question of how he’s doing, that was a legitimate answer. He was doing great, but we hadn’t ramped him up yet. So I think today was an important day. [It was the] first time he’s actually gone live action and was allowed to go through practice and appears fine.” If Curry remains fine through practice Friday and shoot around Saturday morning, there appears to be a pathway to him returning to the court Saturday night against the Pelicans. His return would be welcomed against a red-hot New Orleans team featuring Anthony Davis and Jrue Holiday, both of whom arguably are playing the best basketball of their careers, and Nikola Mirotic, who was excellent in the Pelicans’s sweep of the Portland Trail Blazers. Still, a healthy Curry would make the Warriors the heavy favorites to advance not just past the Pelicans, but all the way to another title.   Thursday’s schedule: Additional reading: A brief history of No. 8 seeds upsetting No. 1 seeds in the NBA playoffs The one-and-done rule is on the way out — because of NBA money, not NCAA morals Retirement? Dwyane Wade says there’s ‘no breaking news here’ It feels like the end of an era for the San Antonio Spurs The Sixers are flying high in the playoffs and, thanks to Joel Embiid, so is Kevin Hart Russell Westbrook and the Thunder don’t appear to have any idea how to beat the Jazz Why is there a snake on the Philadelphia 76ers’ court? Shining a spotlight on the 2018 NBA playoffs underachievers John Wall has regained point god form, and that’s just what the Wizards need It turns out this year might not be so different for the Raptors after all After first-round sweep, Blazers’ next steps could include trading away their stars ‘All my best games I was medicated’: Matt Barnes on his game-day use of marijuana Adam Silver: One of the WNBA’s problems is that not enough young women pay attention to it ‘Get off her back’: LeBron James defends TNT reporter who asked him about Erin Popovich’s death NBA, Twitch reach deal on 2K League streaming rights Comment Q&A Hop into the comments section below to chat with The Post’s Tim Bontemps about all of your NBA questions.