An international chemical weapons watchdog is preparing to send a team to Syria to investigate whether prohibited materials were used in an attack on a rebel enclave last weekend. The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), an intergovernmental agency that won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2013, said in a statement Tuesday it had asked the Syrian government to make preparations for the team’s deployment on a fact-finding mission. It offered no timeline but said the team is preparing to leave for Syria shortly. The request is expected to be honored, since both Syria and Russia said Monday they would welcome a visit and ensure OPCW chemical weapons experts have access to the sites around Douma where chemical weapons were allegedly unleashed on Saturday. United Nations officials, citing reports from rescue workers, have said almost 50 people died and hundreds were injured. The United States and its allies have cited circumstantial evidence to blame the Syrian military for the attack. Both Syria and its main backer, Russia, have denied responsibility and have claimed the reports were fabricated to justify a U.S. attack on Syria. The imminent deployment of the OPCW investigators could delay planning for a possible airstrike on Syria by the United States, potentially aided by France and Britain. During debate at the U.N. Security Council on Monday, ambassadors repeatedly cited the need to verify that chemical weapons were indeed used. The United States is circulating a draft resolution in the Security Council, calling on Syria to facilitate access so the OPCW team can visit the sites to collect soil samples and interview witnesses, according to a copy viewed by The Washington Post. It also would establish a separate joint investigative body to determine who was responsible for any chemical weapons used in Syria. President Trump has promised a forceful U.S. response to Saturday’s incident in the Damascus suburb of Douma. On Tuesday, he canceled a trip to Latin America, due to begin Friday. White House officials said he was staying in Washington to oversee the U.S. response to Syria. world national-security  Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Checkpoint newsletter Military, defense and security at home and abroad. Please provide a valid email address. It would be difficult for the administration to justify a military strike while OPCW investigators are on the ground collecting evidence for analysis. The OPCW has worked in relative obscurity since it was founded in 1997 to oversee the implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention, an arms control treaty that bans the development, production, possession and use of chemical weapons. Based in The Hague in the Netherlands, the group is independent but it often collaborates with the United Nations. Most recently, it sent a team to Britain to investigate the suspected use of a toxic chemical in the poisoning of a former double agent, Sergei Skripal, and his daughter, Yulia.