Game 3 Washington Capitals at Columbus Blue Jackets Series: Columbus leads, 2-0 7:30 p.m. ET, Nationwide Arena TV: NBCSN, NBCSW • Just four minutes and 12 seconds into the third period, the Columbus Blue Jackets knotted the score at 2, once again leveling the margin after Washington led to start the final frame. The game now heads to overtime. (Read More) • As Washington tries to capture its first win of the series, it will be without winger Andre Burakovsky for at least the next two games on the road in Columbus. (Read More) • Braden Holtby will be back in net for the Capitals on Tuesday. (Read More) • The Capitals have climbed out of a series deficit like this one before. That’s hopeful, right? (Read More) In-game analysis End of Period 3: Capitals 2, Blue Jackets 2 The game is in overtime. Again. Again … again. All three games this postseason have required extra time. While fans get free hockey, the media get free ulcers. In the meantime, digest this fact about the Capitals’ highly acidic playoff history: Since 2005-06, the Capitals have now played 34 overtime playoff games. Only the Chicago Blackhawks (38, 23-15) have appeared in more. Washington, however, has a losing record — 14-19. And for a franchise history littered with playoff misery, Washington has a chance to hit a new low for gut-crippling, eye-gouging, garment-rending agony. Jackets tie it at 2: A strong shift for Washington ended with the puck in the back of the Capitals’ net. A cross-ice pass in the Columbus zone was missed by Dmitry Orlov turned into a two-on-one break between Artemi Panarin and Cam Atkinson and ended with a goal by Panarin. Both defenseman John Carlson and goaltender Braden Holtby sprawled to stop the puck, but neither could stop it. Once again the Capitals took a lead into the third period and once again the Blue Jackets leveled it early in the period. End Period 2: Capitals 2, Blue Jackets 1 For the second time in this series Washington leads 2-1 heading into the third period. In two previous games the game ended in Columbus’s favor. How will it go tonight? One thing will definitely warrant a close watch: Will Washington take any penalties? Ill-timed penalties led to key goals for Columbus in each of the first two games, and Washington has four power plays to Columbus’s two Tuesday night. In the playoffs, the penalty ledger is usually close to level by the end of the game, so the Capitals will want to make sure they don’t give the referees any excuse to raise their arms in a third period that could prove pivotal to their 2017-18 season. Two slashes give Caps a 5-on-3 power play, and a goal: Washington enjoyed a 5-on-3 power play for 54 seconds with just under 6 minutes left in the second period after Jakub Vrana had his stick slashed into pieces not once but twice. John Carlson wasted no time scoring he go-ahead goal, one-timing home a Nicklas Backstrom pass through the slot with 1:32 remaining on the second penalty. The Caps are back in front 2-1. The two penalties drawn by Vrana, one off the faceoff and another due to his speed, led to the go-ahead goal by Carlson. Vrana drew over a penalty per 60 minutes at even strength during the regular season, ranking him 58th out of 413 skaters playing at least 800 minutes. Carlson now has 11 shot attempts on the power play against Columbus, second on the team to Alex Ovechkin. That was his first power play goal in the series. It’s 1-1: That 2-0 lead would have looked pretty good for the Caps compared to the 1-1 score with just under 8 minutes left in the first period. Pierre-Luc Dubois whipped a wrist shot into the top left corner of the cage, beating Braden Holtby glove side to knot the score at 1 and re-ignite the Columbus crowd. Connolly nearly makes it 2-0: Brett Connolly potted a juicy rebound after a wild flurry in front of the net at the 12:33 mark of the second to give the Capitals yet another 2-0 lead in this series … but wait! The goal was challenged for offsides by Columbus and it was ultimately waved off after replay. For those who believe in ghosts, voodoo and the supernatural, this may actually have been a good thing, as Washington gave back both games in this series in which it led 2-0. Science and math would beg to differ, and a crucial call (which appeared to be correct on replay) went against Washington. Wilson atones: Tom Wilson may have been criticized for his untimely penalties in all three games, but he helped make it right by scoring the Capitals’ first goal on a redirection with 14:08 to go in the second period. The goal was credited to Matt Niskanen, who sent the shot in from the right point, but it certainly appeared Wilson tipped it. Too many men for Columbus for second period’s first power play: The Blue Jackets took the first penalty of the second period as discipline continues to be in short supply, with too many men on the ice in egregious fashion. It wasn’t just an extra man hopping off the bench in untimely fashion, there were six Blue Jackets involved in the defense for many seconds. On the power play, the shorthanded team may have actually had the better scoring chances as a turnover by T.J. Oshie to Boone Jenner nearly resulted in a Blue Jackets goal. The penalty ended with the score still 0-0, however. End Period 1: Capitals 0, Blue Jackets 0 Perhaps the winds have shifted for Washington, if only in that two first period penalties have not resulted in a momentum-shifting goal for Columbus. Tom Wilson and Jakub Vrana both took penalties when the Capitals were in the offensive zone (though Wilson’s infraction came in the neutral zone) but the penalty kill and goaltender Braden Holtby kept the scoring ledger level. The Blue Jackets will have some power play time carrying over to the second period, however. Neither the Blue Jackets nor the Capitals were able to generate many scoring chances at even strength or with the man advanatge. Columbus put seven shots on net with four occurring in the slot or the crease. Two of those shots (one high-danger chance) were during its two power plays of the period. Five different skaters for Columbus created at least two scoring chances during the first period. Washington created just one high-danger chance at even strength and one more on the power play. Only Ovechkin and Brett Connolly had multiple chances in the opening frame. Washington outshot Columbus 11-9 in Period 1, and Columbus netminder Sergei Bobrovsky definitely had the more challenging saves to make. That said, he made them all and the teams are still goalless heading to the second. Capitals come up dry on their first power play: Well, this is a new twist on this series. With both Game 1 and 2 chock full of power plays, we saw a wave of power play goals. Not so through the first two penalties of Game 3. After the Capitals killed off the Jackets’ first turn with the man-advantage, Columbus returned the favor after a penalty to Josh Anderson for interference. Whereas the PK unit was key for the Caps, it was Sergei Bobrovsky coming up huge for the Jackets, making a pair of clutch saves. Tom Wilson. In the box. Again. Tom Wilson was the target of much criticism early in the series for taking unnecessary penalties. And he takes the first penalty in Game 3. His first two penalties resulted in Columbus goals. His third did not and the Blue Jackets didn’t get a shot on goal either. Welcome to the Stanley Cup Playoffs: Christian Djoos is in the Capitals’ lineup for Jakub Jerabek tonight and the Blue Jackets seem to be giving him a warm welcome. Columbus is crazy: Columbus has never won a Stanley Cup playoff series before, nor has it led a series 2-0. So it was understandable that the atmosphere was buzzing outside Nationwide Arena before Game 3 on Tuesday night. Live music played. Long lines of blue-clad fans stood queued up for beers despite an overcast sky and flakes of snow flurrying to the ground. Inside, the arena was rocking as both teams took the ice for warmups, and in the stands there were very few signs of white or red uniforms on fans who might have traveled from Washington. If the Capitals are to pull themselves out of this 2-0 hole, they will have to do it in front of a hostile environment of the highest order. Hope for the hopeless: With a 3-0 series deficit more or less equivalent to a series loss based on history, Tuesday night’s Game 3 is a must-win for Washington. One potential sign things should go in the Capitals favor? Their luck has been wretched through the first two games. Call it an excuse, but the Caps can claim they aren’t getting much puck luck at even strength in this series. They are 0 for 22 on high-danger chances, shots in the slot or crease, while the Blue Jackets have three goals on nine high-danger chances. The league average shooting percentage on high-danger shots was 13 percent in 2017-18. Had Washington enjoyed even average luck it would have added two more goals to the scoreboard. Washington could get what it needs from the Nicklas Backstrom, T.J. Oshie and Jakub Vrana line. With Vrana, who will fill in for the injured Andre Burakovsky, the trio outshot opponents 38 to 34 and had a 13 to 8 edge in generating high-danger chances during 70 even-strength minutes this season. Vrana also led the team in producing high-danger chances per 60 minutes (5.1). Alex Ovechkin was second (4.7) followed by Tom Wilson (3.7) and Lars Eller (3.5). Top pregame story lines Burakovsky out: The Capitals’ top-six forward corps has yet to score an even-strength goal this series, a big reason for the team’s 2-0 series hole. Now the unit will have to replace Burakovsky for at least the next two games in Columbus; he suffered an undisclosed upper-body injury late in the first period and didn’t play the rest of the game. Coach Barry Trotz said Burakovsky didn’t travel with the team to Columbus, and he’s expected to “miss some time.” He had been playing well beside center Nicklas Backstrom and T.J. Oshie with three goals and three assists in his last eight games, and his absence means 22-year-old rookie Jakub Vrana will draw back into the lineup. He was a healthy scratch in Game 2, despite tallying a primary assist in Game 1, and though Trotz occasionally worries about his defensive play, Vrana’s speed brings a lot of offensive upside. Penalties: It’s been an unusually special teams-heavy start to the series. Washington has been on a power play 13 times, while Columbus has had a man-advantage eight times. Both teams have capitalized — the Capitals have five power-play goals, and the Blue Jackets have four — but both teams understand the need for more discipline. In Washington’s case, the penalty kill has struggled, and Columbus has twice come back from a two-goal deficit and tied the score while on a power play. The Blue Jackets were one of the least-penalized teams in the regular season, and it’s unlikely the Capitals will get as many calls going their way when they’re on the road. But Washington has had the better of the even-strength chances, and staying out of the box could help the team find a rhythm in that area. [Caps, Nats and Wizards could pull off a D.C. sports trifecta (or a D.C. sports cry-fecta)] Two-game guarantee: This wouldn’t be the first time the Capitals rallied from being down 2-0 in a series to win, and captain Alex Ovechkin seemed confident Washington will do so again. The Capitals recovered from that kind of deficit in the second round against the Pittsburgh Penguins last season, but they ultimately fell in Game 7 at home. “We’re going to bounce back,” Ovechkin said Tuesday. “We’re going to come back home for Game 5, and Game 5, it’s going to be tied. And it’s going to be start over again.” Players to watch Braden Holtby: Trotz tabbed Philipp Grubauer to start the series, an understandable choice at the time with how Grubauer had outplayed Holtby down the stretch. But then Gruabuer was pulled through two periods Sunday night, having allowed four goals on 22 shots, and considering the Capitals have allowed nine goals through two games, a change in net to Holtby was the right call. He’s got the second-best all-time career postseason save percentage, but it’s unclear how Holtby will respond to getting the starting job back. He was 5-1-0 in the last six games he started with a .911 save percentage and a 2.67 goals against average. The two-time Vezina Trophy finalist, winner of the award in 2016, has had the worst season of his career: a .907 save percentage and a 2.99 goals against average. Cam Atkinson: Atkinson scored two goals in Columbus’s 5-4 overtime win Sunday, and the 28-year-old has already matched his three-point output from five playoff games last year in just two this season. After Atkinson scored a career-high 35 goals last season, he missed 17 games this season because of a foot injury, and he finished with 24 goals. But he finished strong with 14 goals and 11 assists in the final 20 games of the season, and now he’s part of a Blue Jackets top line that has given the Capitals fits to start the series. Pregame prep Immerse yourself in the Capitals’ postseason with The Post’s coverage of the 2018 Stanley Cup playoffs: History not on Caps’ side, but they’ve erased 2-0 hole against John Tortorella before As Capitals run into another ‘hot goalie,’ they face their own net dilemma Penalties are a problem for Capitals, but a different stat could signal disaster Capitals’ Andre Burakovsky will miss at least two games with upper-body injury Sergei Bobrovsky is ‘dead on his game’ as Columbus staggers Washington in Game 2 Barry Svrluga: If the Capitals don’t get smarter, it soon will be too late for them to learn their lesson In Game 2, Capitals blew a two-goal lead again. Lose in OT again. Capitals’ Kuznetsov, Blue Jackets’ Panarin shared a rink in Russia and the NHL playoff spotlight The Capitals and Blue Jackets are already bloody. There could be more to come. Barry Svrluga: It’s the Capitals. It’s the playoffs. And ‘easy’ just isn’t in the vocabulary. The Capitals preach quality over quantity when it comes to shots. Here’s what they mean. Barry Svrluga: For Capitals’ Barry Trotz, the future is at stake in these Stanley Cup playoffs Washington’s expected lineup Forwards Alex Ovechkin-Evgeny Kuznetsov-Tom Wilson Jakub Vrana-Nicklas Backstrom-T.J. Oshie Brett Connolly-Lars Eller-Devante Smith-Pelly Alex Chiasson-Jay Beagle-Chandler Stephenson Scratches: Andre Burakovsky (upper-body injury), Shane Gersich, Travis Boyd, Brian Pinho Defensemen Dmitry Orlov-Matt Niskanen Michal Kempny-John Carlson Brooks Orpik-Christian Djoos Scratches: Jakub Jerabek, Madison Bowey Goaltenders Braden Holtby (starter) Philipp Grubauer Scratch: Pheonix Copley Columbus’s expected lineup Forwards Artemi Panarin-Pierre-Luc Dubois-Cam Atkinson Boone Jenner-Nick Foligno-Thomas Vanek Matt Calvert-Brandon Dubinsky-Josh Anderson Sonny Milano-Mark Letestu-Oliver Bjorkstrand sports  washington-capitals Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. Defensemen Zach Werenski-Seth Jones Ian Cole-David Savard Ryan Murray-Markus Nutivaara Scratches: Markus Hannikainen, Alex Broadhurst, Taylor Chorney, Jack Johnson, Scott Harrington, Dean Kukan, Lukas Sedlak (upper body), Alexander Wennberg (upper body) Goaltenders Sergei Bobrovsky (starter) Joonas Korpisalo