AUGUSTA, Ga. — Just when it seemed golf could not be more fortunate with the arrival of young major stars, along comes audacious Patrick Reed on Saturday to take a three-shot lead into the final round of the Masters. He did it with a pair of eagles on the back nine en route to a third-round 67. If the 27-year-old U.S. Ryder Cup star can finish his conquest of a place he calls “basically golf’s heaven,” everyone who loves this hateful game should gaze around with glee. Do not stop at “it doesn’t get better than this.” Switch gears. Think in terms of: Golf’s never been this good. We’re suddenly, and spectacularly, entering what may be remembered as the most gifted era of great players — in number, in major titles already won, in range of ages, personalities and nations, and in futures without ceiling — in golf history. [Patrick Reed takes three-shot lead into final round of Masters] Rory McIlroy, in second place here, was the toast of 2011, setting a scoring record at Congressional to win the U.S. Open at the age of 22. Then he rattled off three more major titles to cement his greatness. Jordan Spieth, at 21, won or threatened to win all four major championships in 2015. Then Spieth’s buddy, Justin Thomas, 24, blitzed the PGA Tour in 2017 and has won twice more this year. Now, look at the incredible leader board here at the Masters. It’s not so much a list of 12 names as it is a snap shot of the top of the World Golf Rankings. By sunset Sunday, it’s conceivable that the top seven players in the Masters could be some configuration of the Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8 players on earth: Dustin Johnson, Thomas, Jon Rahm, Spieth, Justin Rose, McIlroy and Rickie Fowler. All ended the third round in the top 12 with ties. If the winner is Reed, then he’ll fit the bill nicely, too. He’s ranked No. 24 in the world and with a green jacket would rise quickly toward a spot in the top 10, where he’s been in the past. Soon, he may actually be what he claimed he was several years ago — “one of the five best players in the world.” Golf always needs more emotion, more edge and a mouth that sometimes says what’s running through the mind above it. That’s Reed. Others on the leader board here, men who might even be shock winners if Reed collapsed, include Tommy Fleetwood, Henrik Stenson, Marc Leishman and two-time Masters winner Bubba Watson. Their planetary positions are Nos. 12, 14, 16 and 19 . Throughout its history, golf has counted its blessings when it could boast of a Big Three, such as Ben Hogan, Sam Snead and Byron Nelson or Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer and Gary Player. Now, it’s barely a stretch to say golf has a Big Dozen. And they come from Northern Ireland, Spain, England, Australia and Sweden, plus a half-dozen Americans from the best group the U.S. has produced in years. [Boswell: Tony Finau is on Masters leader board on one foot] The lone what-is-he-doing-here interloper is: nobody. There have been no Danny Willett, Charl Schwartzel or Trevor Immelman sightings — all of them Masters champs in the past 10 years. This is the Masters strictly for masters. If it seemed like every golfer on the property tore the throat out of the Augusta National on Saturday, that’s because the level of talent in the game, all raised in the post-Tiger Woods era, when his game was the bar to measure by, has reached a point that, on a windless day on a rain-softened course, the target score for these guys is “shoot zero.” Fowler, McIlroy and Rahm shot 65s, Reed his 67 and Bubba a 68. What, have they no respect for the pines, azaleas and green jackets? Nope. Ain’t it great? This is the best leader board I’ve ever seen since I started covering the Masters in 1978. Now, to evaluate the depth of talent, you have to break the sport down by age subcategories. The under-25s include Spieth, with three major titles already; Thomas, who’s won a PGA Championship; and Rahm, universally seen as a major champ in waiting. And maybe not waiting long. Those still under 30 include McIlroy, who has recovered from a 2017 that included a rib injury, as well as Fowler, who’s perpetually knocking on the door in majors. And, of course, Reed, who still must prove he can conquer his nerves in a major. He feeds off adrenalin and creative, bold shotmaking, rather than the patient self-command needed here. His three-shot lead is a margin that can dissolve quickly, leaving only misery. “The golf tournament is wide open,” said McIlroy, who is two shots clear of third-place Fowler. “It’s not a two-man tournament.” McIlroy will be motivated by his crucial loss to a pumped-up, crowd-inciting Reed in their last-day Ryder Cup battle at Hazeltine. “I feel like all the pressure is on Patrick on Sunday. I’ve got nothing to lose. . . . Spoil the party.” Told of McIlroy’s comments, Reed showed some subtle gamesmanship: “I am leading. . . . But at the same time, he’s trying to go for the career Grand Slam. So you can put it either way.’’ Reed has the added weight of his strong Augusta connection as a former star at Augusta State University, which he led to two NCAA national championships. Add to that his adoration of the turf on which he walks. If he could apologize to the grass for stepping on it, he would. “The perfect grass and really just the lush green fairways — it’s basically golf’s heaven,” he said. Then, in the next 10 minutes when asked about his chances, Reed used the phrase “stick to the game plan” 11 times. All week, McIlroy has dripped confidence, doing everything except predict his fifth major title. After moving up to fourth place Friday, he said he walked off the course “a little disappointed.” If offered such a strong position, wouldn’t he have taken it Wednesday? “I don’t know,” he said, then shot a 5-under-par 31 on the front nine and added two more birdies on the back to keep Reed in his sights. Golf’s 30-something group, with plenty of time for more glory, includes the titanic Johnson, who’s won a U.S. Open and squandered other big titles; Rose, also a U.S. Open winner; Sergio Garcia, the defending Masters champ; and Jason Day, who’s spent time as No. 1 in the world and won a PGA Championship. Often, in the past 40 years, golf has teased us with apparent big talents who never broke through the major championship barrier, or players with the ill luck to be overshadowed by titans Nicklaus and Woods. Right now, golf gets to have its cake and eat it, too. The game has its dream trifecta: young stars from all over the world, big names in their prime and aging icons who can still play. This week, Phil Mickelson, 47, and Woods, 42, made the cut but were not factors. Yet they drew huge galleries, and deservedly so. Mickelson, with his five major titles, is still ranked 18th in the world and has a win this spring. Woods, with his 14 such trophies, came off the course after a 72 joking that he has moved back into the world’s top 100 after falling “out of the top 1,400.” Woods, drifting gradually toward candor as he ages, conceded that his game was still in the “building process.” Make that rebuilding. Golf, perhaps more than any sport, is most appealing when it’s aging charismatic old guard can still quicken the pulse, even though the following generations are doing the heavy lifting and making the fresh history. The first time I ever covered the Masters, I knew which golfer I’d follow. He was 48 years old, had not won any tournament in five years or any major title in eight years. Yet Arnold Palmer’s gallery was the biggest and loudest on the course, thundering every time Arnie hit a shot that was not instantaneously atrocious. That day, instead of “Go in the hole,” the most often heard yell to encourage Palmer was “Get through!” sports golf  Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Daily newsletter Sports news with a focus on D.C. area teams. Please provide a valid email address. In that spirit, the big crowds and warm cheers this week for Phil and Eldrick merely continue golf’s long tradition of ancestor worship. There’s no harm in wondering whether, between 42 and 47, Woods can do what Phil did at those ages — win three events, including a major. But one look at this leader board underlines the game’s far more fundamental truth. The sport doesn’t need anybody — any one player — because, right now, perhaps more than at any time in its history, golf has everybody. And each year, some new rising star, such as Reed, wants to kick down the door and join the party.  For more by Thomas Boswell, visit washingtonpost.com/boswell.  More on golf: In his Masters return, Tiger Woods earns a weekend stay at Augusta How did Sergio Garcia shoot a 13 at the Masters? Augusta National to host a women’s amatueur event in 2019 Tony Finau made the Masters leader board on essentially one foot — and it gets better