It’s a special night for 32 young men and 32 teams in America’s most popular sport. By the time midnight arrives, a few of the top picks in the NFL draft will be preparing to become instant millionaires, their lives changed forever. Which begs the question: What is their walk-up music, you know, the jam that will be played as the 22 men who are present in the AT&T Stadium green room sashay toward the Roger Goodell bearhug after their names are called? You’re going to be hearing Drake (so much Drake) and Bon Jovi, to name two. Sam Darnold, the former USC quarterback, had the audacity to pick Metallica’s “Enter Sandman,” the song that really belongs to the Yankees’ future Hall of Famer Mariano Rivera. Cheeky fellow. Here, courtesy of NFL.com, is the list of songs you’re going to hear: Jaire Alexander, CB, Louisville: “How Bout Now,” Drake Josh Allen, QB, Wyoming: “Wanted Dead Or Alive,” Bon Jovi Saquon Barkley, RB, Penn State: “No Promises,” A Boogie Wit da Hoodie Taven Bryan, DT, Florida: “Hail To The King,” Avenged Sevenfold Bradley Chubb, DE, NC State: “200,” Future featuring Young Thug Sam Darnold, QB, USC: “Enter Sandman,” Metallica Marcus Davenport, DE, Texas-San Antonio: “Till The End,” Logic Tremaine Edmunds, ILB, Virginia Tech “Freestyle,” Lil Baby Rashaan Evans, OLB, Alabama: “Finally Rich,” Chief Keef Minkah Fitzpatrick, S, Alabama: “I’m Good,” Trip Lee Shaq Griffin, OLB, UCF: “Do Not Disturb,” Drake Derrius Guice, RB, LSU: “God’s Plan,” Drake Josh Jackson, CB, Iowa: “Hypnotize,” The Notorious B.I.G. Lamar Jackson, QB, Louisville: “No Basic,” Future Derwin James, S, Florida State: “Maybach Curtains,” Meek Mill featuring Nas, John Legend, Rick Ross Kolton Miller, OT, UCLA: “Glow,” Drake featuring Kanye West Josh Rosen, QB, UCLA: “On Top,” Flume featuring T-Shirt Roquan Smith, OLB, Georgia: “God’s Plan,” Drake Leighton Vander Esch, ILB, Boise State: “I Know How It Feel,” Ace Hood featuring Ty Dolla $ign Vita Vea, DT, Washington: “Ain’t Goin Home,” Kamaiyah Denzel Ward, CB, Ohio State: “Congratulations,” Post Malone featuring Quavo Connor Williams, OL, Texas: “Devil Off My Back,” Flatland Calvary The draft has a red carpet. Zoinks. A red carpet has been a fixture over the last few years and, judging by the early glimpses, velour may be big this year. Yes, the players have stylists. How else to explain the impeccable fit and design of Penn State running back Saquon Barkley’s togs? (And the lining is pretty special, too.) This would be a good look in, say, New York City. Lee Corso does a Lee Corso thing ESPN’s Lee Corso donned a gigantic Mel Kiper head at the end of the “pregame” show. A tradition unlike any other What would an NFL draft be without the ritualistic booing of Roger Goodell? Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones who, shall we say, had his differences with Goodell over the national anthem demonstrations and Ezekiel Elliott’s four-game suspension, is putting on this shindig in JerryWorld, and he seems to be trying to be a genial host. Jones and Goodell appeared to be all kumbaya as they appeared together around town this week. To ensure that Goodell isn’t booed by a gigantic crowd in AT&T Stadium, he’ll be accompanied by Cowboys legends Roger Staubach and Troy Aikman as well as Jason Witten. “I’m sure he’s going to get a good response with us being out there,” Staubach told the Star-Telegram. “If they boo, all of us are in trouble.” Said Jones: “I don’t know of anybody, maybe other than me, that’s had more boos than Roger has. I know about how that works. I do hope we can be positive in our reception. We are going to do something pretty special, and he did have a final say in that.” Good luck with all that. Cheeseheads for everybody! The draft’s sleeper pick Dad is about to get paid, Jada Penn State running back Saquon Barkley will be a top pick, but it can’t top what happened earlier in the week, when daughter Jada Clare arrived. Words can’t even describe how I feel right now. You are the most beautiful thing I’ve ever seen in my life. Thank God for blessing me with you in my life and into my arms. I pray that I can be the best father to you and help you grow into an amazing woman. I love you so so so much #DaddysLittleGirl Jada Clare Barkley 4.24.18 ❤️ A post shared by  Saquon Barkley (@saquon) on Apr 24, 2018 at 7:43pm PDT How to watch the first round (Hint: it’s everywhere) With the first round of last year’s draft pulling in 6.7 million viewers on ESPN and 2.5 million more on NFL Network, can you blame them? As many as six quarterbacks could be off the market by the time Thursday night’s first round is over, another reason viewers are likely to flock to their televisions for coverage that, for the first time on broadcast TV, will encompass all seven rounds of the three-day draft. Six providers — two over-the-airwaves channels (Fox and ABC) — and four cable networks (ESPN, ESPN2, ESPN Deportes and NFL Network) will handle the duties, with ABC simulcasting ESPN’s coverage of Rounds 4-7 on Saturday. Fox and NFL Network will simulcast the first three rounds with a joint broadcasting team. The Road to the NFL The Washington Post examines the NFL’s top offseason event from five key vantage points. Part 1: Part job fair, part spring break trip, part time warp: Welcome to the NFL’s weirdest week Part 2: NFL draft analysis is a cottage industry — and everyone wants to join the neighborhood Part 3: ‘Super agents’ rep 75 percent of NFL players. It’s a competitive fight to sign the rest. Part 4: For NFL hopefuls, the exhaustive draft process can ‘seem like horse trading’ Part 5: John Schneider built the Seahawks’s Super Bowl roster. He’s starting again in the 2018 draft. Read more NFL draft coverage from The Post: The 2018 NFL draft: Pick-by-pick news, rumors, analysis, updates Josh Allen apologizes for racially insensitive tweets that surfaced just before the draft Jorts! Baker Mayfield went all in to re-create Brett Favre’s iconic draft-day photo