COLUMBUS, Ohio — Washington Capitals forward Tom Wilson struggled to keep his emotions in check through the first two games of his team’s first-round Stanley Cup playoff series against the Columbus Blue Jackets. That he didn’t take a single shot in either game was a scary afterthought. He had committed a string of costly penalties in both of those overtime losses at home, including a charging call in Game 1 that injured Columbus’s Alexander Wennberg and forced the league to closely review the controversial hit. Wilson was not suspended, and he vowed to travel to Columbus and redeem himself. He calmed down. He began to find his rhythm with a goal to open Game 3, which eventually proved crucial in an overtime win. And in Thursday night’s Game 4, he followed suit by scoring the Capitals’ first goal in a 4-1 win that tied the series at two games apiece and sets up what should be a thrilling Game 5 back in Washington on Saturday afternoon. “I think coming here I owed the boys, for sure. That’s what a team is about,” Wilson said. “Coming here, myself, our line, we felt like we kind of owed the guys some, and we’re pretty happy with taking two here.” [Capitals-Blue Jackets series tied: Ovechkin proves prediction correct with help from Holtby, Oshie] It wasn’t just that Wilson had scored Thursday night; it was also how. After Washington rushed the net with a two-on-one and failed to score following a few brilliant, acrobatic saves by Columbus goaltender Sergei Bobrovsky, the Blue Jackets failed to corral the rebound and the puck eventually squirted out to center Evgeny Kuznetsov, who set up Wilson’s one-timer. Wilson beat Bobrovsky and stunned the home fans who were still cheering the goaltender’s series of saves from a few seconds earlier. The entire play, according to Washington Coach Barry Trotz, was emblematic of how much Wilson has settled into this series after four games. “I think he’s emotionally in check and knows how to contribute with the linemates that he has,” Trotz said. “That first goal was all about playing a 200-foot game, turning it into some offense and staying diligent on the puck.” Wilson’s goal seemed to set the tone on a night when the Capitals controlled the puck and finally received the production it expects from its top-six forwards, including a power-play goal from T.J. Oshie, a third-period goal from Alex Ovechkin and an empty-netter from Kuznetsov. But this also was a return to normalcy for Wilson, who had earned a consistent spot on the top line alongside Ovechkin and Kuznetsov this season largely because he had been so sturdy and provided scoring production with three goals last postseason. But Washington also has needed him to take the next step, and he came away frustrated with his contributions in the first two games. While Wilson picked up a questionable penalty in the first period Thursday night, that seemed to be the only blemish. He took seven shots. He assisted on Ovechkin’s goal. He still threw his weight around and checked. He helped Washington’s penalty kill bounce back for a second consecutive game after giving up four goals on eight power plays through the first two games. Washington killed both of Columbus’s power plays Thursday night, and Wilson paid his debt to his team after a difficult first two games. “Everyone kind of sees Whip as this big enforcer, which he can be if he has to be. If you look at what he does, I think he’s one of the most versatile guys on our team,” Oshie said. “He can fight the biggest guys in the league, he can penalty kill, and I’ve got no doubt that if me and [Brett Connolly] got hurt, I think him and [Alex Chiasson] could play the diamond on the power play. He plays on our top line. So it is good to see him going.” Read more on the Capitals: Ovechkin proves prediction correct with help from Holtby, Oshie A brief history of Alex Ovechkin guaranteeing things Capitals player in viral ‘puck girl’ video wonders, ‘Whatever happened to ladies first?’