The first round of the NBA playoffs continues today with four pivotal games — two Game 4s and a pair of Game 3s. Follow along here for the latest analysis and commentary from The Post’s NBA reporter Tim Bontemps, and ask him questions in the comments section. Catch up on last night’s games here. Schedule and results | Pregame reading | Comments section Q&A The matchup that will decide the first-round series between the Oklahoma City Thunder and Utah Jazz won’t be Donovan Mitchell vs. Russell Westbrook. It won’t even be Rudy Gobert vs. Steven Adams. Instead, it will be who wins the positional battle between Derrick Favors and Carmelo Anthony. Really, one might ask? Yes. Really. In winning Game 2, the Jazz looked good when they had Gobert and Favors on the court together, and they gambled that Anthony wouldn’t make enough shots to prevent them from playing that way. It’s hard to believe that’s where we are these days with Carmelo Anthony, who has spent his career as one of the league’s preeminent scorers, is now in a position where he needs to prove he can hit shots against a power forward to win a first-round series for his team as a third option. Yet here we are — and that’s exactly what Utah is going to make him do. It was clear watching Game 2 that the Jazz aren’t too concerned about Anthony making shots. And, given he is 11 for 31 overall and 4 for 16 from three through two games, it’s hard to argue against Utah’s strategy. Favors, meanwhile, had 20 points and 16 rebounds — including eight offensive boards — in Game 2, showing the kind of impact he can have when guarded by the smaller Anthony for much of the game. Utah, which scored 50 points in the paint in Game 2, will be hoping for that kind of production as the series shifts to Salt Lake City for Game 3 Saturday night. If the Jazz get it, they could take the upper hand in this series. Whether they are able to have Favors in there to provide it — as opposed to a smaller player like Jae Crowder — will likely come down to whether Anthony makes shots. So if you’re looking to hone in on one specific matchup in Game 3, it’s Favors vs. Anthony. Determine the winner of that one, and you’ll likely determine the winner of the game — and, possibly, the series. Saturday’s schedule and results: Pregame reading: Paul Pierce says it’s time for John Wall and Bradley Beal to step up or break up ‘All my best games I was medicated’: Matt Barnes on his game-day use of marijuana 76ers’ Joel Embiid returns to the court wearing a mask with goggles Adam Silver: One of the WNBA’s problems is that not enough young women pay attention to it ‘Get off her back’: LeBron James defends TNT reporter who asked him about Erin Popovich’s death Wizards defense isn’t close to being good enough to get them back in this series NBA, Twitch reach deal on 2K League streaming rights Comment Q&A Hop into the comments section below to chat with The Post’s Tim Bontemps about all of your NBA questions.