BRATISLAVA — Tens of thousands of Slovaks returned to the streets Sunday to keep up pressure on the government for reform seven weeks after the killing of a journalist sparked a political crisis and brought down a prime minister. The killing of Jan Kuciak, 27, who investigated corruption among politically connected businesspeople, and his fiancee at their home in February intensified widespread anger about persistent corruption allegations, leading to the largest near-weekly protests since the end of communism in 1989. Amid growing pressure last month, long-serving prime minister Robert Fico stepped down to save his three-party government and picked his deputy, Peter Pellegrini, to lead a reshuffled cabinet. The news website Dennik N estimated that Sunday’s protest drew about 30,000 in the capital, Bratislava. Demonstrators want the police chief and the special prosecutor out and a crackdown on corruption. Protest organizers said those two offices “have long overlooked corruption scandals reported by Jan Kuciak and other investigative journalists.” In office since 2004, special prosecutor Dusan Kovacik is responsible for prosecuting abuse of power and corruption among public servants and politicians. According to data from his office last year, he has overseen 61 cases between 2009 and 2017 and has not pressed criminal charges in any of them. Tibor Gaspar, president of the national police force, also is refusing to quit, although the new interior minister is reviewing his work over his five years in the post. No senior politician has gone to prison for corruption in that time, according to Transparency International. About 48 percent of bribery cases dealt with by courts involved amounts of less than 100 euros (about $120). “All the scandals that went unpunished brought me here. So far, only puppets in the government have changed, but we ­haven’t seen real change,” said protester Martin Mataseje, a 39-year-old IT consultant. Police say Kuciak’s killing was related to his work. He reported on suspected tax fraud by some who have links to the ruling Smer party. Some of his reporting was on deals between the government and the country’s biggest privately owned security firm, whose owner is related to Gaspar. He has denied any wrongdoing. Kuciak was also investigating Italian business executives in Slovakia suspected of mafia links, one of whom had dealings with two people who later worked in Fico’s office before resigning in the wake of the killing. The two have denied any links to the killing.