LOS ANGELES — The pitching probables for this weekend’s three-game series at Dodger Stadium suggested the memorable pitchers’ duel would take place in Friday’s opener. That’s when two three-time Cy Young Award winners took the mound to open the set between the Washington Nationals and Los Angeles Dodgers, two National League heavyweights still finding their way several weeks into the season. But baseball is baseball, and baseball often doesn’t go as planned. So, naturally, Saturday featured the pitchers’ duel that was anticipated 24 hours earlier. The Nationals seemingly had the edge with Stephen Strasburg on the mound a night after Max Scherzer. But it was Hyun-Jin Ryu and the Dodgers coming out on top, 4-0, in 2 hours, 29 minutes to set up a nationally televised rubber game Sunday night. Both Ryu and Strasburg went seven innings. Ryu struck out eight and walked three. Strasburg struck out 10, walked two and hit another batter. But Strasburg surrendered two solo home runs — one to Joc Pederson in the second inning and another to pinch hitter Kiké Hernández in the seventh — while the Nationals (10-11) mustered just two singles off Ryu after tallying nine hits off Clayton Kershaw in their win on Friday. [In a matchup of Cy Young royalty, Max Scherzer gets the better of Clayton Kershaw] The Dodgers (9-10) applied the finishing touches in the eighth, when Cody Bellinger, on his bobblehead night, smashed a two-run home run off Carlos Torres in the reliever’s Nationals debut. “The guys were battling, but [Ryu] made some really good pitches,” Nationals Manager Dave Martinez said. “Didn’t give us much to square up.” Strasburg’s first inning suggested the Dodgers were in for a long night. The right-hander needed just 10 pitches to record three outs. Nine were strikes. He fanned two. It was crisp - and discouraging for the guys in the white uniforms. But the Dodgers barreled six flyballs and line drives over the next two innings. Fortunately for Strasburg, five went to outfielders for outs. Unfortunately for Strasburg, the sixth was a 422-foot moonshot off Pederson’s bat to put Los Angeles on the board first. Yasmani Grandal supplied the Dodgers’ second hit, a one-out laser to center field in the fourth. But that was erased when Bellinger hit a chopper to Ryan Zimmerman, who touched first base and lobbed a precise throw to second to get Grandal for an inning-ending double play. The Dodgers were timing Strasburg right consistently after the first inning. The results weren’t matching. [Nationals place Matt Grace on DL, are still missing Anthony Rendon] On the other side, the Nationals were making Ryu work, hiking his pitch count to 50 through three innings, but couldn’t break through. Their best scoring chance came in the third, when they loaded the bases with two outs for Moises Sierra, their five-hole hitter. In an optimal situation, when the Nationals are fully healthy, Anthony Rendon, Zimmerman or Daniel Murphy is batting fifth. But injuries have diminished the Nationals’ depth so the inning fell to Sierra, a spring training nonroster invitee. He grounded out. From there, Ryu, relentlessly working on the outer half the strike zone, plowed through the Nationals’ lineup. He struck out the side in the fourth and completed his scoreless seven-inning performance by retiring 13 straight. The Dodgers handle Ryu with extreme care, but he needed just 89 pitches to get through seven innings. “He just does everything,” said Trea Turner, who recorded one of Washington’s two hits against Ryu. “He goes in, out, up, down. He has four pitches he throws constantly. There’s not something he sits on or really goes to, which I think makes it tough to kind of gameplan. He pitched really, really well tonight.” The Dodgers didn’t give Ryu much leeway, though they appeared on the brink of chasing Strasburg from the game in the sixth. Chris Taylor led it off with a missile down to left field for a single. Corey Seager followed with a walk. Then Strasburg hit Grandal with a fastball. In a blink, Strasburg found himself in a bases-loaded, nobody-out predicament with Bellinger, the Dodgers’ slugging cleanup hitter, stepping to the plate. The precarious situation brought pitching coach Derek Lilliquist out for a mound visit. Five pitches later, Bellinger was walking back to the Dodgers’ dugout, having swung through a change-up for strike three. Up next was Pederson, whose second-inning blast remained the game’s only run. Strasburg got ahead 0-1 but then lost the strike zone. Suddenly, the count was 3-1. Strasburg was pinned. Matt Wieters jogged out from behind the plate for a chat. Their solution: reach back and attack with fastballs. Two 97-mph heaters later, Pederson struck out swinging for the second out. “I gave it all I had there,” Strasburg said, “and tried to keep it as close as I could.” Matt Kemp stood between Strasburg and an improbable — perhaps game-saving — escape. Strasburg returned to the fastball to jump ahead 0-2. Three pitches later, he slung 98-mph heat by Kemp for strike three. Strasburg trotted off the mound unscathed. “He pretty much said, ‘I’m going to throw my fastball, and I’m going to throw it by you,’ ” Wieters said. “That’s impressive, with his kind of fastball. We know about his curveball and change-up. When he pitches with that kind of aggression with his fastball, it’s like: Here it is, see if you can hit 97. It speaks for how confident he was in it tonight.” The escape felt like a momentum-shifter, but the Nationals’ offense didn’t carry it over, going down in order again against Ryu in the seventh before Los Angeles padded its lead. Hernández, pinch-hitting for Ryu, provided the thunder, launching a fastball from Strasburg deep into the left field bleachers with two outs. Strasburg had struck out the previous five batters. One mistake rendered that irrelevant on a night when he couldn’t afford any. “They ran into a couple balls,” Strasburg said. “Baseball.” Read more on the Nationals/MLB: Box score: Dodgers 4, Nationals 0 | MLB standings Why the drop in home runs in 2018? MLB had better hope it’s the weather. Trea Turner is walking more than ever. The hits should follow. The Nationals are slyly paying tribute to Daniel Murphy with this on-field hand signal Dave Martinez doesn’t want Ryan Zimmerman to change a thing at the plate