President Trump used his Twitter account on Tuesday to threaten foreign aid to Honduras as he continued his focus on a “caravan” of 1,000 migrants, primarily from the Central American nation, that has been spotlighted by conservative media in recent days. For the third straight day, Trump used the migrants’ journey north to call for tougher immigration policies and warn of what he called “weak” border security. But the prospect of cutting off foreign aid added a new dimension to the string of threats from the president that had centered largely on potentially walking away from the North American Free Trade Agreement, which his administration is currently renegotiating. Honduras received about $127.5 million in aid from the United States in fiscal 2016, according to data from the United States Agency for International Development. “The big Caravan of People from Honduras, now coming across Mexico and heading to our “Weak Laws” Border, had better be stopped before it gets there,” Trump tweeted shortly before 7 a.m. Tuesday. “Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen. Congress MUST ACT NOW!” Congress is currently in a two-week recess. The so-called “caravan” — an annual event that is meant to draw attention to the refugee crisis in Central America — has spurred a new round of calls from Trump for an immigration crackdown, particularly funding for his border wall that has so far eluded him during his presidency. [Trump heats up rhetoric on border, immigration as some supporters grow impatient] He referred to the caravan again in tweets Monday night, accusing Democrats of allowing for “open borders, drugs and crime” while deriding the nation’s immigration laws as an “Obama joke.” “Honduras, Mexico and many other countries that the U.S. is very generous to, sends many of their people to our country through our WEAK IMMIGRATION POLICIES. Caravans are heading here. Must pass tough laws and build the WALL. Democrats allow open borders, drugs and crime!” White House officials are preparing new proposals for Capitol Hill that they say will close existing “loopholes” in current immigration law. Separately, the Department of Homeland Security is pushing for the end of the so-called “catch and release” practice, which allows undocumented immigrants who have been apprehended to be released until their immigration hearing date. Trump’s new immigration threats came in a line of tweets early Tuesday that included another defense of Sinclair Broadcasting Group. The largest network of local television stations in the country , it has recently come under fire after reports that anchors were ordered to read a uniform script decrying “biased and false news” and criticizing other journalists for using their platforms to “push their own personal bias.” “The Fake News Networks, those that knowingly have a sick and biased AGENDA, are worried about the competition and quality of Sinclair Broadcast,” Trump tweeted. “The ‘Fakers’ at CNN, NBC, ABC & CBS have done so much dishonest reporting that they should only be allowed to get awards for fiction!” Trump leveled another attack at CNN in a separate tweet that misspelled the name of the cable network’s head, Jeff Zucker. And in his fourth tweet of the morning, Trump touted his ratings in recent polling from Rasmussen Reports, whose figures tend to favor Republicans, and noted his numbers were “higher than ‘Cheatin’ Obama at the same time in his Administration.” 