What do you want to know about the Redskins draft? Leave your questions in the comments. DAY 2 ANALYSIS Redskins trade back in Round 2: With three running backs going off the board — Nick Chubb, Ronald Jones and Kerryon Johnson — to start the second round, but LSU’s Derrius Guice still on the board, Washington traded out of its position in the second round. The Redskins sent the No. 44 overall pick, as well as the 142nd pick, to the San Francisco 49ers in exchange for picks No. 59 and 74. The trade gives the Redskins a third-round pick, an asset they had been without after sending their own third-rounder to Kansas City, along with cornerback Kendall Fuller, for Alex Smith. The trade came just after Johnson was selected by the Detroit Lions, who traded up with the New England Patriots to take the Auburn running back. The 49ers selected Washington receiver Dante Pettis with the Redskins’ pick. Running back could still be in play for the Redskins due to a deep draft class. Saquon Barkley, Rashaad Penny, Sony Michel, Nick Chubb, Ronald Jones and Kerryon Johnson are all off the board. At the time of the trade, Nyheim Hines (N.C. State), Royce Freeman (Oregon) and John Kelly (Tennessee) are all still available. The Redskins could also use a guard, but interior linemen flew off the board early in the second round as well. That also could have contributed to the trade decision. *** The 2018 NFL draft kicked off on Thursday, with the Redskins selecting an Alabama defensive lineman in the first round for the second straight year. Below is analysis on what Da’Ron Payne brings to Washington, plus a look at the players the team could target in the second round on Friday, and the team’s pre-draft needs. DAY 1 ANALYSIS What went down: The Washington Redskins found themselves in a perfect position Thursday night during the NFL draft. A run on quarterbacks and a pair of offensive linemen taken in the first 12 picks left the organization with plenty of options at No. 13. The decision seemed to come down to the best player available versus addressing an immediate need. At 6-foot-2, 311 pounds, Da’Ron Payne should immediately help a run defense that allowed 134 rushing yards per game and ranked dead last in the league. “We really like Da’Ron,” said Coach Jay Gruden. “Coming out as a junior, he’s only 20 years old. A big, strong, physical guy. You see what’s going on in our division with Saquon Barkley, [Ezekiel] Elliott and Philadelphia, they way they run the ball,” he added, referring to the Giants’ second overall pick at running back and the Cowboys’ star rusher. [Brewer: Given a chance to make a splash, Redskins played it safe — and might have been smart] “Our ranking on defense wasn’t quite up to speed at 32nd and we feel like Da’Ron paired with Jonathan Allen and the rest of the guys … I think is a perfect fit.” The Redskins took Payne over the top safety in the draft, Florida State’s Derwin James, and the elite athleticism of Virginia Tech linebacker Tremaine Edmunds. “There were quite a few guys that were worthy of that pick, quite frankly,” said Gruden. “But for what we were looking for and the fit, I think Da’Ron is perfect for us. … I think the room was unanimous on who we should take.” The Redskins are scheduled to have just one pick on the draft’s second day after they traded their third-round pick and cornerback Kendall Fuller to the Chiefs for quarterback Alex Smith. The expectation is for the organization to go with a running back with the No. 44 pick. Payne said he’s glad to be in Washington with the opportunity to play with former teammates — Allen and 2017 second-round pick Ryan Anderson, an outside linebacker. Payne also liked the “vibe” he got from the organization and said it felt like a family. “At Alabama, I won a bunch of games,” Payne said. “I can take that winning mind-set and the whole mentality it takes to be a winner and just take it to the Washington Redskins.” —Kareem Copeland How he fits: The 6-foot-3, 311-pound defensive tackle fills the Redskins’ biggest need along the defensive line at nose tackle. Coming from Nick Saban’s Alabama program, Da’Ron Payne has benefited from quality coaching that has led him to play with fundamentally sound technique. He’s incredibly stout and can take on double teams while not giving ground and maintaining gap integrity. He also uses active hands to fight for position and leverage to not only control blockers, but to beat them. [Redskins draft ‘relentless’ defensive lineman Da’Ron Payne out of Alabama with 13th pick] As a pass rusher, Payne has plenty of potential. During the regular season, he was inconsistent with his rush, although he would flash a good rep a couple of times a game. But in the playoffs and particularly in the championship game, Payne took over and dominated the line of scrimmage in all aspects. He showed a good first step and different moves, including an effective club-swim combination that enabled him to skip by blockers quickly. Payne will have to become more consistent in that area and prove he’s able to sustain pressure over the course of the season instead of just getting hot in one or two games. But those dominating performances came in the biggest games of the year for Alabama and played a huge part in winning them the championship. While that side of his game develops, Payne is ready to start as a run defender right away. He shows quickness in the run game to penetrate and the ability to play more conservatively with leverage and occupy blockers to open lanes for his linebackers to flow through. For the Redskins, Payne will fit in naturally alongside former Alabama teammate Jonathan Allen as the base nose tackle. Meanwhile, his pass-rush upside will enable him to play in nickel sub-packages and be part of a young rotation of interior rushers that includes Allen, Matt Ioannidis and Anthony Lanier. That’s a talented group of defensive linemen for coach Jim Tomsula to work with and develop. —Mark Bullock [2018 NFL draft live analysis, updates: Browns take Baker Mayfield with No. 1 pick] SECOND-ROUND TARGETS With the first round of the draft in the books, here is a look at some players the Redskins could target with their second-round pick on Friday, No. 44 overall. Will Hernandez, G, UTEP: It’s surprising to see Hernandez fall out of the first round, and he’s by far the best interior offensive lineman still available. At 6-foot 2, 327 pounds, he is a mauler in the run game who plays with a nasty streak that coaches love in offensive linemen. He’s ready to plug in at left guard right away, and would not only complete the Redskins’ offensive line, but turn it into one of the most talented units in the league. Derrius Guice, RB, LSU: Guice could well turn out to be the best back of this very talented class. He’s a violent, physical back who runs with terrific contact balance, giving him the ability to break multiple tackles. He wasn’t quite as explosive in 2017 while playing through injuries, but go back to watch his 2016 tape and you’ll see that he jumps off the screen with his burst and acceleration. The Redskins have made it clear they want a running back they can trust to carry the load and pair with Chris Thompson in the backfield, Guice is the best back still available. Joshua Jackson, CB, Iowa: Jackson is a ball-hawking cornerback with playmaking skills that flash regularly. He had 26 passes defended and eight interceptions this past season. Part of the reason a corner with that type of production fell into the second round is he’s a risk-taker. While he’s fantastic at anticipating throws and breaking on routes, he can be caught out of position with double moves and give up big plays. For the Redskins, Jackson could start opposite Josh Norman and replace Bashaud Breeland, even though the team signed Orlando Scandrick, drafted Fabian Moreau last season and likes Quinton Dunbar. Harold Landry, Edge rusher, Boston College: The Redskins’ edge-rushing unit is strong up front with Ryan Kerrigan and Preston Smith, while having solid depth in Ryan Anderson and Pernell McPhee. But they lost an elite speed rusher in Junior Galette and have nobody else of a similar mold. Landry is a slightly undersized edge rusher, but has the burst off the snap to challenge the edge and the bend to turn the corner. —Mark Bullock PRE-DRAFT TEAM NEEDS Defensive line: This was thought to be the team’s biggest position of need entering the draft, after the Redskins were last in the NFL in run defense last season, allowing 134 yards per game. Washington addressed it in the first round with the selection of Payne, although the team would benefit from additional help either on the interior defensive line or at edge rusher. [Redskins’ 2018 schedule: Thanksgiving at Dallas, Monday night games vs. Eagles, Saints highlight slate] Running back: This is the second-biggest need after the Redskins ranked 28th in the NFL with just 91 rushing yards per game. Doug Williams, the Redskins’ senior vice president of player personnel, has repeatedly expressed a desire to add another rusher this offseason. Washington is seeking a runner who can handle early-down work, ideally with more explosiveness than provided by the tandem of Rob Kelley and Samaje Perine last season, to pair with receiving back Chris Thompson. Cornerback: There is a bit of urgency to make the first two picks count after the Redskins traded their third-round pick and cornerback Kendall Fuller to the Kansas City Chiefs for quarterback Alex Smith. Williams joked earlier this week that Smith, coming off a career season with 4,042 passing yards and 26 touchdowns, is the best third-round pick in this draft. While the Redskins are reasonably set at cornerback, having signed Quinton Dunbar to an extension to play opposite No. 1 corner Josh Norman, added veteran slot cornerback Orlando Scandrick to compete to replace Fuller, and drafted Fabian Moreau out of UCLA last year, the position is still considered something of a need area. Guard: In what could be some pre-draft misdirection, Williams said that guard isn’t a priority for the team heading into the draft, even with former starter Shawn Lauvao not returning, because of the presence of 2015 fourth-round pick Arie Kouandjio. “Kouandjio is going on his third year now, so we can play with him,” Williams said. “We’re not going in saying, ‘We’ve got to get a guard.’ “That’s not where we are at this point because we’ve got enough guys around here that if we have to play a game, if everybody was healthy today, with what we have, we wouldn’t have no problem lining up and playing a game.” However, Lauvao’s departure could cause the team to look to draft a guard, perhaps in the later rounds. —Kareem Copeland What do you want to know about the Redskins draft? Leave your questions in the comments. Read more: Winners and losers from the NFL draft’s first round: AFC East comes out firing Giants made a mistake selecting Saquon Barkley No. 2 in the 2018 NFL draft New Raven Lamar Jackson says he has a chip on ‘both shoulders’ after falling to No. 32