The New Yorker has two long reads on two former members of Donald Trump’s national security team: Ronan Farrow on Rex Tillerson and Patrick Radden Keefe on H.R. McMaster. It’s a fun exercise to read these articles and ask: Which of these formers is the biggest disappointment? It is no secret that the hard-working staff here at Spoiler Alerts grew increasingly skeptical of Tillerson over time. That is to say, I have read a lot about Tillerson but am nonetheless impressed that Farrow’s story — excerpted from his forthcoming book, “War on Peace” — manages to reveal new areas of incompetence. There’s the obvious tension between members of Tillerson’s inner circle. There’s the fact that Tillerson “is not a proactive seeker of conversations” according to one State Department staffer, leading to slow responses to foreign counterparts. This can be a thing when the job description includes a lot of talking. Then there’s the stuff that was fatal to Tillerson’s tenure. First, even though he knew crafting a relationship with the president was important, he clearly botched it: “The only person that I have to worry about is the President of the United States,” Tillerson told me. But that relationship was, likewise, fraught. Tillerson’s Texas swagger, the source close to the White House said, irked Trump. “You just can’t be an arrogant alpha male all the time with Trump. You have to do what Mattis does, which is, ‘Mr. President, you’re the President, you’re smarter than me, you won, your instincts are always right, but let me just give you the other view, sir.’ Then you have this guy coming in,” the source said, referring to Tillerson, “going, ‘Well, I guess because I worked for so many years in the oil business, I have something to say. You don’t know much about the region, so let me start with that.’ I mean, honestly, condescending.” The truly breathtaking part, however, is where Tillerson flat-out admits that he did not understand the job he had taken. When faced with the Office of Management and Budget’s demand for deep budget cuts, Tillerson made a rather amazing assumption: Tillerson said he’d looked at the numbers proposed by the White House Office of Management and Budget and assumed he could count on “plus ten, plus twenty percent, because we figure the Congress is going to give us something there.” He conceded he may have simply lacked experience. “Having been here one month” when he mounted his initial defense, “I didn’t have a real basis to do more than work with O.M.B. to understand what were their objectives.” While some former Secretaries of State agreed with the premise of expansive cuts, virtually all, spanning generations, took issue with the extent and execution of the ones championed by Tillerson. George P. Shultz, who served in the Nixon and Reagan Administrations and had, like Tillerson, spent years in the private sector, told me that, stepping into the job, “You don’t start out with the idea that you’re going to cut everything before you even know what’s going on.” The fact that Tillerson had moved so swiftly toward downsizing was “astonishing,” Shultz said. “Whether he was told to do that by the President, that was part of a condition of taking the job, I don’t know. On the other hand, if the President insists on something like that, I think it’s unacceptable. You can turn a job down.” In the end, Tillerson’s biggest mistake was possessing the hubris to believe that he could be secretary of state without any kind of background in government or diplomacy. It is almost as if private-sector expertise does not translate into public-sector competence or something. Pivoting to Keefe’s article, we also learn that Tillerson “showed little regard for McMaster” and rebuffed attempts by the national security adviser to coordinate on a regular basis. That might have been due to Tillerson’s arrogance, but after reading Keefe, one wonders if McMaster brought this on himself. He seemed congenitally incapable of adapting to President Trump, for example: McMaster’s staff urged him to condense his briefings and make them more conversational. (In an interview with a senior official, I described this process as “dumbing down,” and the official corrected me — “Let’s say ‘simplified ’ ” — with a speed that suggested McMaster may also have banned the phrase “dumbing down.”) McMaster felt that oversimplifying national-security matters “was dangerous,” Pollack told me. He tried to turn his wonkishness into a joke: “Mr. President, just seventeen quick points on that!” But Trump responded with open disdain. According to “Fire and Fury,” the book by Michael Wolff, Trump complained that his national‑security adviser was “boring.” Now on the one hand, McMaster is correct: Oversimplifying national security issues could be dangerous. And Trump’s lack of foreign policy acumen suggests an uphill climb in getting him to pay attention to briefings; the article quotes a former staffer explaining that Trump’s briefings needed to consist of “two or three points, with the syntactical complexity of ‘See Jane run.’” But Keefe offers up a small anecdote that suggests the problem might have been rooted in McMaster’s nature: At the University of North Carolina, where McMaster pursued his Ph.D., he distinguished himself for the thoroughness of his preparation. His adviser, Richard H. Kohn, once chided him for turning in a seminar paper that was two hundred pages long. How to put this … if any student handed in a 200-page paper for a seminar of mine I would flunk that student and never feel bad about it. Writing a paper that long implies one of two things. It’s possible that the student failed to clear the topic with the professor and then got way too ambitious. It’s more likely, however, that the student could not organize his thoughts clearly enough to make a more concise argument. Whether it is term papers or presidential briefings, brevity and clarity count for a lot. It seems that McMaster was unable to master this simple dictum. There is a small part of me that pities Tillerson and McMaster. President Trump is clearly an uninformed, mercurial commander in chief. It could not have been easy to staff him. I probably align myself more closely with Tillerson and McMaster on substantive policy issues. But these profiles make it clear just how unprepared either man was for the job Trump gave them.