BRUSSELS — Newly minted Secretary of State Mike Pompeo arrived in Brussels before dawn on Friday, in a sprightly start to his job as the administration’s top diplomat. Fresh from an overnight flight, Pompeo went to NATO headquarters to meet his counterparts from 28 other countries that are members of the alliance. On Saturday, he will head to Saudi Arabia to meet with King Salman, and on Sunday he travels to Israel for talks with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and to Jordan to see King Abdullah. Barely 12 hours after being sworn in, Pompeo already was meeting with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, noting that he had “hopped on a plane and came straight here.” “There's good reason for that,” he added. “The work that's being done here today is invaluable, and our objectives are important, and this mission means a lot to the United States of America. The president very much wanted me to get here, and I'm glad we were able to make it, and I look forward to a productive visit here today.” Pompeo’s whirlwind maiden voyage masks weeks of contingency planning so he was ready to plunge into the job. Immediately after being was sworn in by Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito, he was whisked to Joint Base Andrews in suburban Maryland and soon was in the air en route to Europe. Though his rapid departure means that Pompeo will have to delay his traditional, inaugural speech to employees from a staircase in the State Department lobby, it suggests that Pompeo is determined to distinguish himself from his predecessor, Rex Tillerson, who was fired six weeks ago. The official explanation for the trip is that the four stops were chosen to reflect their “importance as key allies and partners in the region,” said Heather Nauert, undersecretary of public diplomacy. Unofficially, the decision to send Pompeo on the road as literally his first act in office sends a strong message to dispirited State Department employees who felt diplomacy and their expertise were sidelined under Tillerson. The trip underscores Pompeo’s resolve to return the State Department to the center of foreign policy in the administration. Even as his plane was ascending out of Andrews, the State Department website slipped into a rare expression of bureaucratic glee, displaying his photograph and the caption “Welcome Mike Pompeo! 70th U.S. Secretary of State.” Before Pompeo was confirmed, the NATO meeting was shaping up to be a mundane affair with no major debates or decisions anticipated. Pompeo’s presence will give NATO members a chance to hear about North Korea directly from the man who went to Pyongyang over Easter to talk with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un about a summit with President Trump. Some of the talks may be uncomfortable. According to a senior State Department official who briefed reporters this week, the main focus of the meeting will be discussions about “increased burden sharing.” That is diplomatic jargon for getting NATO countries to spend more money on their own defense. The administration is particularly displeased with Germany, which it believes is moving too slowly at reaching its commitment to step up defense spending from 1.24 percent of gross domestic product, where it is now, to 2 percent. The NATO foreign ministers also are expected to spend time talking with Pompeo about an impending decision on continued U.S. participation in the 2015 Iran nuclear deal. Trump has threatened to reimpose sanctions that were suspended under the agreement, effectively withdrawing the United States from the deal and threatening its very survival. The European Union and the countries of France, Britain and Germany, which negotiated the deal in partnership with the United States, all have urged the White House not to abandon it. There is no shortage of other pressing issues to talk about — more than a one-day meeting can accommodate — including Russia’s attempts to interfere in democracies and so-far futile efforts to jump-start peace talks to end the Syrian civil war. But in the end, many of the foreign ministers will be assessing Pompeo and his relationship with Trump. While most of the senior diplomats liked and respected Tillerson, they often said they did not know if he reflected Trump’s positions, or had much influence on U.S. foreign policy. Pompeo's debut seems to herald a new era.