ST. LOUIS — The Washington Capitals have reached the last week of the regular season, with two remaining games that will have no bearing on their postseason positioning. But some players will use these two outings as their final opportunity to secure a place in the playoff lineup. Others won’t play at all, devoted the time to healing some bumps and bruises before the first round begins. The luxury of clinching the top spot in the Metropolitan Division is that the Capitals can afford to experiment with some parts of the lineup while resting players in other spots. It’s a balance for Coach Barry Trotz, who wants his team feeling fresh for the postseason while also rolling in with momentum, something Washington missed when it had the league’s best regular-season record the past two years, rendering the final month essentially meaningless. “It was painful,” Trotz said with a chuckle. This year featured more inconsistency, but the benefit of less success earlier in the season is that Washington has strung together some of its best performances with the postseason less than two weeks away. After winning the division with a 3-1 win in Pittsburgh on Sunday, the Capitals could’ve come out unmotivated the next night in St. Louis against a Blues team still fighting to make the playoffs. But Washington instead won its seventh game in the past eight, and is 11-2-0 since March 10. [ Capitals keep foot on the gas, deal Blues a painful loss ] “We’ve got a lot of new players, we’ve got a lot of guys that want to be part of the playoffs, and they’re pushing each other,” Trotz said. “They know they get an opportunity to jump in the lineup, and they just want to stay there. We’re getting some good looks at guys. The guys I keep putting in and taking out, they’ve responded every night, it seems.” Forwards Jay Beagle and T.J. Oshie were both out of the lineup on Monday; Beagle suffered an undisclosed “upper-body” injury on Sunday in Pittsburgh, and though Oshie played against the Penguins, he’s been dealing with a “lower-body” ailment. Trotz said Oshie wanted to play, but with the division clinched, the Capitals didn’t see the need in risking his health in any way. “We’re thinking long-term,” Trotz said. It’s possible Washington will rest other veterans in these final two games. Defenseman Brooks Orpik is the team’s oldest player at 37, and though he’ll certainly be in the postseason lineup, skating 19:29 per game with the most shorthanded ice time on the team, he’s missed practices recently as maintenance for a “lower-body” injury. “At this time of year, guys have a lot of bumps and bruises,” Trotz said. “If you get an opportunity to just allow players to heal up a bit, it pays dividends. Because once the playoffs start, it’s another level, and you don’t want to have a guy working from a deficit.” For the players who will be in the lineup, Trotz plans to balance the ice time. Where he would otherwise shorten the bench in a close game, Trotz said he intends to use a four-line approach in these final contests. For the bottom-six forward corps and the third defense pair, more ice time could mean more opportunities to make an impression. Trotz has declared an open competition for the four wing positions on the third and fourth lines, so while these games may not mean anything to the team’s postseason position, they’ll matter for the players fighting to be in the playoff lineup. Rookie Shane Gersich, who joined the team less than two weeks ago, is “making a case for himself,” Trotz said, and he’s played well enough to earn a spot in the final two games. Devante Smith-Pelly has played the past four games beside third-line center Lars Eller, and his physical play has been especially noticeable. But fellow right wing Alex Chiasson upped the ante when he scored a goal against the Blues on Monday night. He now his eight points in his past 11 appearances. “They’re a little bit in direct competition sometimes against each other,” Trotz said. “They’re both good pros. They’re both big bodies who can get to the net and find ways to score and that. Chaser has been a guy who every time I’ve taken him out and put him back in, he’s scored a goal, so it’s sort of been my secret lately. He always wants to make a statement, so I’m happy for him.” Another position battle is brewing between defensemen Christian Djoos and Jakub Jerabek. The Capitals traded a fifth-round pick to Montreal for Jerabek, and he’s played in 10 games since the team acquired him in late February. Djoos, a rookie, has played in eight games over that span, as the blue liners have swapped in and out of the lineup on the right side of Orpik. Though Washington is thrilled with the development of Djoos throughout the season, Jerabek has recorded two assists and a goal in his past four games. “We don’t know Jerry as well as we do Djoos, so obviously, we’re using Jerry in bunches of games and different games,” Trotz said. “My main goal has been to keep everybody involved, and when we pick our lineup for the playoffs, that’ll be the lineup, knowing that we got people ready and some quality people who can step in.” More on the Capitals: sports  washington-capitals Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Sports Daily newsletter Sports news with a focus on D.C. area teams. Please provide a valid email address. ‘My regret is it wasn’t a 15-year contract’: Revisiting Alex Ovechkin’s deal before his 1,000th game Alex Ovechkin, on the verge of 1,000th NHL game, looks back at his first 82 ‘The crown gets pretty heavy’: Capitals happy to fly under the radar for a change