The House Ethics Committee said Wednesday that it will continue to investigate whether Rep. John J. Duncan Jr. (R-Tenn.) misspent more than $100,000 in campaign and leadership PAC funds on personal expenses, including gifts, travel, club memberships and private events such as bridal lunches and baby showers. Duncan might have broken House rules and federal law if he misused political funds, the Office of Congressional Ethics, an independent ethics monitor, said in a detailed 57-page report. “If Rep. Duncan converted campaign funds from Duncan for Congress or the Road to Victory PAC to personal use, or Rep. Duncan’s campaign committee or leadership PAC expended funds that were not attributable to bona fide campaign or political purposes, then Rep. Duncan may have violated House rules, standards of conduct, and federal law,” the OCE said. The congressman, who has said he will not seek reelection, has represented his Knoxville-area district since 1988. Attorneys from the firm of Webster, Chamberlain & Bean LLP, who represented Duncan, suggested any wrongdoing was committed without his knowledge and that he “cannot be held responsible.” In a 37-page letter to the ethics panel, also released Wednesday, they suggested Duncan’s all-encompassing approach to politics meant that virtually all of the expenses cited by OCE had a “campaign nexus.” “They are not traveling to political events, throwing parties or purchasing club memberships to enrich themselves or live a more lavish life,” David P. Goch and Heidi K. Abegg wrote of Duncan and his family. Some lawmakers have faced legal repercussions amid claims they misused political funds. Former congressman Jesse L. Jackson Jr. (D-Ill.) was sentenced to 30 months in prison in 2013 after pleading guilty to spending roughly $750,000 in campaign money on luxury items, celebrity memorabilia and family expenses. In 2014, Rep. Robert E. Andrews (D-N.J.) resigned after facing years of allegations that he violated rules by using campaign funds to pay for personal trips to Scotland and Los Angeles. He refunded the money and denied wrongdoing. And Rep. Duncan D. Hunter (R-Calif.) is under criminal investigation for allegations that he spent donations improperly on family vacations and private school tuition. He denies knowingly misusing funds. OCE, which referred the Duncan case to the ethics committee in January, released details of the congressman’s spending. The document presents one of the most extensive accounts ever published by OCE of potentially problematic campaign spending by a member of Congress. According to its investigation, Duncan spent approximately $25,000 on recreational travel for relatives and friends between 2008 and the present. Trips billed to either the campaign fund or leadership PAC included a luxury three-night stay for multiple families at the Greenbrier Resort in West Virginia in 2014 and lodging, mileage and food expenses in the Washington, D.C., area during the 2017 presidential inauguration. [Elizabeth Esty won’t seek reelection amid scrutiny of chief of staff’s departure] The Greenbrier stay involved charges for 10 rooms, as well as amenity and food expenses such as $672.52 at the hotel spa for a total cost of $15,091, OCE found. Political funds also paid for multiple family members to travel to New York between 2009 and 2011, and for one of Duncan’s sons — who had a campaign management role — to travel to Montana in 2010 for a “trip with friends” and to Washington, D.C., in 2016 for the White House Christmas party, according to OCE. The campaign also spent more than $23,000 at Club LeConte in Knoxville, roughly half on membership fees and half on parties, including bridal events in 2009, 2014 and 2015 and baby showers in 2009, 2015 and 2016, the report stated. Credit card statements reviewed by OCE showed another $13,715.83 in gift expenses at retailers such as Babies “R” Us and Williams Sonoma that appeared “in connection with special occasions, like weddings and baby showers.” In interviews with the OCE, Duncan and his wife, Lynn, justified these expenses as campaign-related. Multiple family members had campaign roles at a given point or were involved with overseeing political funds, the report stated; one son spent approximately $13,525.40 on a cellphone account he used for campaign purposes, as well as calls related to his real estate business. The events at Club LeConte were organized “for various women who had supported us in campaigns, which I always thought was a good thing to do,” Duncan told OCE in an interview. The events also helped “get votes from women,” he said. Lynn Duncan said she typically bought gifts for “people that’ve helped in political campaigns over the years. . . . If it’s somebody that’s been very active for us, then I say ‘yes.’” The campaign committee routinely purchased season tickets to sporting events and concerts between 2009 and 2013 and reported them to federal election officials as entertainment for constituents. In interviews, Duncan staffers said they sometimes gave tickets to lobbyists and campaign consultants. powerpost       false endOfArticle true The Daily 202 newsletter PowerPost's must-read morning briefing for decision-makers. Please provide a valid email address. Lawyers for Duncan said the OCE’s review stemmed from politically motivated accusations. They also accused the office of working outside its jurisdiction and violating other rules and said the ethics committee should dismiss the matter as a result. “Representative Duncan is confident in asserting the principles he has governed himself by, both in public life as an elected official and in his private life, are of the highest standards,” they wrote. “He did not knowingly act in a way that was illegal, inappropriate or questionable.”  Paul Kane contributed to this report. Read more at PowerPost