“Hey, Mama,” I said, “When I was little I remember us driving somewhere. I saw fire and tears on Daddy’s face; where were we going?” “You remember that, Alma?” she asked me. We were riding along in the car about eight years ago, chatting about nothing in particular when that image popped into my head again, as it had repeatedly over the years. “That was the riots, that’s when we went to check on your daddy’s store and saw it burning down.” I was 4, sitting in the back seat of my daddy’s car. It was the night that the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. had been killed in Memphis, and cities across the country, including the nation’s capital, went up in flames. That was the first time I’d ever seen my father cry. My hero, Ulysses Martin, was tall, dark, slim and so very handsome. Sidney Poitier handsome. Poised, professional and always prepared to give you his best. My father was born in 1920 in North Carolina. He was the oldest of three children. His mother died giving birth to the third child when my father was 3, and his father died when he was 6. Moving in with his grandmother, a freed slave, they all lived in a one-room house with dirt floors. No indoor plumbing, no indoor lights, no indoor bathroom. My father was an impeccable dresser; he wore a suit and tie every day because he was a master tailor. He made every item of clothing except underwear. His eyes would light up when he talked about the time he was commissioned to make tuxedo jackets for the wait staff at the White House. Fifty years ago, Daddy couldn’t get a loan at the bank, because that wasn’t an option for most black people in America. I don’t know how or where my father learned to become a master tailor, but I do know he worked at a dry cleaners for a man who adored his craft. My mother said the owner was so impressed with my father’s skills, he took out a loan to help my father open his very own tailor shop. That’s the store he watched burn to the ground. Luckily my father was able to relocate to another location, and later to yet another location. I remember the shop when it was on the block where the Walter E. Washington Convention Center now stands near downtown, and I remember the shop in the 930 building on F Street. The elevator man would let me take the reins for hours at a time. Both of my parents are in heaven now, and I think about them every day. I know they’d be super proud and over the moon that I work at The Washington Post, our hometown paper that my father read every night after dinner. When The Post prepared to move almost two years ago, my friend and co-worker Jennifer Crandell and I were packing up news departments and ran across a batch of pictures. One photo, of a woman and child walking past the burned-out rubble of a business, struck me: The sign in the lower right corner read “Wohlmuth now at 714 7th St. N.W.” I recognized it as the name of my father’s shop. I jumped up. “Hey, Jen,” I said, “that’s my father’s tailor shop!” The tears started to flow; I couldn’t speak another word. I was holding a part of my father, my parents’ struggle, in my hands. This photo doesn’t mention my father’s name. He and my mother were not interviewed about how they felt about the riots or how it would affect their family or whether they would recover. I don’t think they knew about it, because I’m sure my mom would have saved a copy of the article. But here it was, the property of my employer, and now I’ve got a copy, too.