For years, prospective home buyers have faced a lack of inventory throughout the United States and in the Washington region. Nationally, the National Association of Realtors (NAR) found inventory has fallen year-over-year for 32 consecutive months and was down 9.5 percent in January 2018 compared with January 2017. Locally, the region’s inventory was down 13.4 percent in February 2018 compared with February 2017. A lack of homes for sale was blamed for the anemic increase in home sales of just 1.1 percent in the U.S. last year, according to NAR’s data. [More Charron: What home sellers need to know about appealing to millennial buyers] Low inventory and high demand have also caused home prices to increase by more than 5 percent every year for the past six years, which is great news for homeowners but frustrating for buyers. Finding a solution to the limited number of homes for sale first requires understanding the reasons behind the limited supply. Those reasons include: [More Charron: Walkable neighborhoods provide health, environmental and financial benefits] The solutions to these issues are as complex as the problems themselves. While builders are sometimes blamed for the lack of inventory, there is no question that limited, expensive land and a severe labor shortage hamper builders’ ability to ramp up supply. Jurisdictions need to balance the desire for green space with development and address transportation needs to maintain livability. Investors and homeowners will need to be convinced of the financial and lifestyle benefits of a property sale before we see an increase in listings. In the meantime, home buyers can anticipate competition for properties in the coming months. To ensure a successful transaction, they should prepare themselves now for the purchase with a strong pre-approval and work with an agent who can help them in their search. David Charron, chief strategy officer of Rockville-based multiple-listing service Bright MLS, writes an occasional column about the Washington-area real estate market.