Vegas strongly favors Villanova, and so do the experts Villanova enters Monday night’s national championship game against Michigan as only the fifth team to win its first five games of the NCAA tournament by double digits. That has the oddsmakers tabbing the Wildcats as a seven-point favorite against the Wolverines, and a large contingent of the country’s college basketball analysts believe Villanova will roll to its second title in three years. Of the 36 national college basketball analysts at ESPN, Sports Illustrated and CBS Sports to pick the national champion, only one – ESPN’s Paul Biancardi – picked Michigan to win. Biancardi has the Wolverines edging the Wildcats by a score of 76-72. Eighteen of the 25 ESPN analysts picked Villanova to cover the spread. CBS Sports had four of its seven analysts pick Villanova to cover. The seven-point spread is the largest in a national championship since 2010’s title game between Duke and Butler. Duke was also a seven-point favorite that night, and while it didn’t cover, it survived a half-court heave by Butler’s Gordon Hayward at the buzzer to win, 61-59. In advancing to their 2nd national title game in 3 years, the Villanova Wildcats made 18 3-pt FG, tied for 2nd-most in an NCAA Tournament game and setting a record for most in a Final Four game.Villanova is the 5th team with five double-digit wins entering the title game. pic.twitter.com/FDpeawpLmq Info: Schedule: The national championship game starts at 9:20 p.m. Eastern time. Television: TBS will broadcast the game, just the second time in the tournament’s 80-year history that the finale will appear on cable. The game will be called by Jim Nantz, Grant Hill and Bill Raftery, with reporting from Tracy Wolfson. Pregame coverage will begin at 7 p.m., anchored by Ernie Johnson and with analysis from Charles Barkley, Clark Kellogg, Kenny Smith and others. Series history: The schools have played four times before, most recently in November of 2014, a 60-55 Villanova win. All four previous meetings have come at neutral sites, with Villanova leading the series 3-1. The schools haven’t played in the NCAA tournament since 1985. Fast facts: Villanova will play in its fourth national championship game, and second in three years … The Wildcats are just the fifth team to play in the national title game after winning their first five tournament games by double digits … Villanova now has the most three-pointers of any team in a single NCAA tournament (66), and the most by a Division I team in a single season (454) … Villanova’s 35 wins equaled the school record, set by the 2016 national championship team … Villanova has two previous national titles, while Michigan has one … Michigan’s 33 wins are already a school record … Beilein enters the game with 799 career victories … No Big Ten school has won a national title since Michigan State in 2000 … Michigan is holding opponents to just 58.6 points per game in the tournament, while Villanova hasn’t scored fewer than 64 points in a game this season …  Michigan has won 16 NCAA tournament games since 2013, tied with North Carolina for the most in the country. Game preview: SAN ANTONIO — In the eccentric American art of shooting a basketball in a dome or other football edifice used for the purposes of runaway capitalism, Villanova is the maestro of the 2010s period. That fact lends a geeky fascination to the Wildcats’ title match against Michigan on Monday night and Michigan’s excellent unfriendliness toward shooters. A viewer might even keep a digital box score handy on the couch to follow along. Thirty-six teams have reached men’s Final Fours in the 2010s, in stadiums where play the NFL’s Colts, Texans, Saints, Falcons, Cowboys and Cardinals, plus this Alamodome here. Amid the occasionally debated, alleged bugaboo of shooting in a monstrous cavern, nine of those teams have shot 50 percent or better in a game. The top four: Villanova in 2016, Villanova in 2016 again, Kentucky in 2012 and Villanova in 2018. “It’s all in the work,” national player of the year Jalen Brunson said Saturday night, in a country where so many basketball players do so much work. Then he repeated, “It’s all in the work.” [ Villanova’s Jalen Brunson is a very serious person. Seriously. ] In its three Final Four games this decade, Villanova has played Oklahoma in 2016 in Houston where the shooting had been somber in 2011, then North Carolina in 2016 in Houston, then Kansas in 2018 here Saturday. Its shooting percentages: 71.4, 58.3, 55.4. Seven teams this decade have shot 50 percent or better from three-point range in a Final Four game. Two of those were Villanova, and a third Villanova production needs an asterisk. It shot 61.1 percent against Oklahoma, 57.1 percent against North Carolina and 45 percent against Kansas. Of course, against Kansas, Villanova made a Final Four-record 18 three-point shots, as if possessing some secret. “No, not really,” Coach Jay Wright said. “Just I think in ‘09 we played in Ford Field (in Detroit’s Final Four) and we didn’t get a practice. It was the first year they put the court in the middle of the field, and we didn’t get a practice on Thursday. And then when we came to Houston (in 2016), they gave us a closed practice on Thursday and then the open practice on Friday. And we had Thursday, Friday and Saturday shooting here and I think it makes a difference. I think it makes a big difference. By Saturday, you feel comfortable.” Villanova’s halftime shot chart just amazing #ncaa #FinalFour pic.twitter.com/R40wavgd78 Point of information: Villanova shot 32.9 percent in the 2009 national semifinal in Detroit against North Carolina, and 6-for-27 (18.5) from three-point range. Other point of information: As college basketball players clearly learned to shoot at a Houston Final Four between 2011 and 2016, North Carolina shot 53.8 percent in its semifinal with Syracuse, and 42.9 percent in the final with Villanova, but 11-for-17 (64.7 percent) from deep. In the vast expanse of University of Phoenix Stadium last year, basketballs rolled across rims like tumbleweeds, and only one team (Gonzaga in a semifinal) shot better than 37.9 percent. [ John Beilein recruited Moritz Wagner to Michigan over a big German dinner and a beer ] Back in Texas now, Villanova has sizzled, yet one of two strong forces will figure to yield in the final. Michigan’s five NCAA tournament opponents have known the combined gloom of making 18 of 75 three-point shots, and Loyola Chicago got one, of 10. The “10” was almost as important as the “1,” given that Loyola Chicago averaged 18.6 tries per game. Florida State averaged almost 22 but got 17 against Michigan (and made four), Texas A&M averaged almost 20 but got 15 (and made three) and so on. “If you just look at the analytics of it,” Michigan Coach John Beilein said, “the three-point, it’s like baseball; people don’t sacrifice bunt anymore, which still bothers me when we don’t sacrifice bunt. But the analytics say do it, go for the three-run homer or the two-run homer. And this is sort of the idea that some teams, that’s what they do. “And you’ve got to — every coach, every sport, you’re trying to take away what other people do. And we have sort of a plan for that that I won’t share. But I’m not talking about Villanova (as that kind of team). Over the year, we have some different analytical columns we try to fill to make sure we are on the best way the numbers say we can beat a team.” It looks like a good night to study the box. How Villanova got here: How Michigan got here: More college basketball: Who is Notre Dame’s Arike Ogunbowale, who twice hit the shot of a lifetime in the women’s Final Four? sports  sports Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. Takeaways from the Final Four as Villanova, Michigan advance to title game For a hidden key to Final Four success, keep an eye on the shot clock ‘Just unbelievable’: The last time Loyola Chicago upended the college basketball world