The first round of the NBA playoffs continues today with three Game 5s, including two possible elimination games. Follow along here for the latest analysis and commentary from The Post’s NBA reporter Tim Bontemps, and ask him questions in the comments section. Catch up on yesterday’s games here. Schedule and results | Pregame reading | Comments section Q&A In a series of tweets Wednesday afternoon, rapper Meek Mill confirmed he had been released on bail from a state correction institution in Chester, Pa., five months after he’d been incarcerated for a probation violation. Mill, whose given name is Robert Williams, has received a visit earlier Wednesday from comedian Kevin Hart and Sixers minority owner Michael Rubin. A short time later, Rubin posted on Instagram a picture of himself, Mill and Hart at a Sixers game, and said he was going back to the prison to pick the rapper up. @meekmill is FREE!!! Just left visiting Meek with @kevinhart4real and I’m on the way back to pick him up as we speak! #MeekisFree #GoSixers A post shared by  Michael Rubin (@michaelgrubin) on Apr 24, 2018 at 12:37pm PDT Mill’s case has been championed by players across the NBA — including Sixers rookies Ben Simmons and Markelle Fultz, who reportedly went to visit him in prison, as well. Before each home game, Philadelphia has someone different serve as the team’s ceremonial bell-ringer, hitting a replica of the Liberty Bell just before tip-off to wind up the crowd inside Wells Fargo Center. The bell-ringer for Game 1 was Joel Embiid, who was injured at the time. For Game 2, it was Hart. If he’s able to get there in time, could Mill do it for Game 5? According to the New York Times, yes. Just the idea of the rapper being court-side for Wednesday night’s game — which, if the Sixers win, will mean they advance to the second round for the first time in six years, where they’ll face either the Milwaukee Bucks or Boston Celtics, swept across the internet. Tuesday’s schedule: Additional reading: Russell Westbrook and the Thunder don’t appear to have any idea how to beat the Jazz Why is there a snake on the Philadelphia 76ers’ court? Shining a spotlight on the 2018 NBA playoffs underachievers John Wall has regained point god form, and that’s just what the Wizards need Jazz boots Thunder to the brink in testy win; Rockets’ 50-point quarter fuels rout Lance Stephenson got to LeBron James, but the Cavaliers got the win Wizards reach their breaking point against Raptors. Then they get it together. It turns out this year might not be so different for the Raptors after all After first-round sweep, Blazers’ next steps could include trading away their stars ‘All my best games I was medicated’: Matt Barnes on his game-day use of marijuana Adam Silver: One of the WNBA’s problems is that not enough young women pay attention to it ‘Get off her back’: LeBron James defends TNT reporter who asked him about Erin Popovich’s death NBA, Twitch reach deal on 2K League streaming rights Comment Q&A Hop into the comments section below to chat with The Post’s Tim Bontemps about all of your NBA questions.