Studio Theatre under artistic director David Muse seems to be hitting its satisfying stride — and the streak could very well continue with the strong, fresh season it’s unveiling for 2018-2019. The new season will include plays by two New York-tested writers who grew up in the Washington suburbs — Steven Levenson and Sarah Burgess — and a third by a highly regarded young playwright, Tearrance Arvelle Chisholm, who trained at Catholic University. Among the offerings, too, will be recent plays by two women who have yet to have work produced by major Washington companies, and the latest effort by Joshua Harmon, who scored one of Studio’s biggest all-time hits with his caustic comedy, “Bad Jews.” All this and a visit to the District by a South African play that has created a stir elsewhere in the United States and Europe: “The Fall,” about a student-organized movement to remove a statue of Cecil Rhodes, a historic figure for whom Rhodes scholarships are named but who has become a symbol of the country’s reviled bygone era of apartheid. With a slot in its season still to be announced — the one production that will be directed by Muse, in spring 2019 — Studio is rolling out its heaviest schedule yet of work of recent vintage. In summer 2019, it will initiate a new entertainment program, removing the 200 seats in its Milton Theatre and transforming it temporarily into what Muse calls “a performance club,” with a pop-up bar and acts of various types to be booked for short runs. Here are the entries in its Main Series, with specific run dates to be announced: “If I Forget” is by Levenson, who wrote the Tony-winning book for the Tony-winning musical, “Dear Evan Hansen,” which had its world premiere at Arena Stage. Levenson, who grew up in Bethesda, sets this play in 2000 in Washington, amid a Jewish family with fierce opinions about politics and one another. Directed by Matt Torney (Studio’s “Translations“). “Cry It Out,” by Molly Smith Metzler, concerns a pair of young mothers from diverse walks of life who form a bond over raising their children. Directed by Joanie Schultz (Studio’s “Hand to God“). “Queen of Basel,” a play by Hilary Bettis, which is having its official premiere at Studio, following a developmental production at Miami New Drama in South Florida, retells August Strindberg’s “Miss Julie” via the daughter of a swanky hotel owner during Miami Beach’s annual Art Basel fair. Director to be announced. “Admissions,” by Harmon, is set at a prestigious private school in New England where the white, politically progressive admissions director faces a crisis over her son’s aspirations and the efforts to get him into an Ivy League college. Director to be announced. (A fifth play, still to be selected by Muse, will be directed by him.) And here are the shows in its Studio X program: lifestyle  arts-and-entertainment       true Must Reads newsletter 5 stories you can't afford to miss, every Saturday. Please provide a valid email address. “The Fall,” from South Africa’s Baxter Theatre Centre at the University of Cape Town. “P.Y.G. or the Mis-Edumacation of Dorian Belle” is the world premiere of a play by Chisholm, who had another of his plays, “Hooded, or Being Black for Dummies,” produced by Mosaic Theater Company. Inspired by George Bernard Shaw’s “Pygmalion,” “P.Y.G.” posits a white Canadian singer enlisting a pair of Chicago hip-hop artists in his effort to broaden his pop bona fides. Chisholm will direct. “Kings,” by Burgess. A native of Bethesda and Alexandria, Burgess recently saw the world premiere of this Washington-centric play — about the corruption built into the lobbying process on Capitol Hill and the freshman congresswoman who tries to fights the system — at the Public Theater in New York. It’s a good fit for the capital city.