The Washington Capitals will open the Stanley Cup Playoffs on Thursday against the Columbus Bluejackets with much less hype than the previous two years, when Washington, then the title favorite, twice failed to advance past the second round. Here are a few pressing story lines facing these Capitals, who are relishing the chance to fly under the radar for a change. Can Alex Ovechkin continue his tear? Ovechkin gave Washington fans a memorable regular season finale in a 5-3 win over New Jersey, scoring two goals to finish the season with 49. It has a been a year of decoration for Ovechkin, who in the last month alone has scored his 600th goal and played in his 1,000th game. How his jaw-dropping production at the age of 32 translates to the postseason will again be a crucial component of Washington’s run. Ovechkin has a talented and intriguing sidekick in Evgeny Kuznetzov (83 points in 2017-18), but Ovechkin will still face the brunt of the questions on whether he can exorcise the Capitals’ playoff demons should they reach the second round. [ 2018 Stanley Cup odds: Lightning and Predators are early favorites ] Phillip Grubauer or Braden Holtby?: Washington Coach Barry Trotz split his goaltenders for the final two games of the regular season and has remained mum on who will start Game 1 on Thursday. While Holtby has struggled during the second half of the regular season, Grubauer has been one of the most productive goaltenders in the league since late November, posting a .937 save percentage over his past 27 outings. Holtby was pulled by Trotz in Washington’s 5-1 loss to Columbus when the teams last met in late February, but in the three previous games with the Blue Jackets this season, he posted three wins with a .936 save percentage. [ Potentially the Capitals’ playoff goaltender, Philipp Grubauer took a patient path here ] Will there be secondary scoring?: For as much as a potential playoff run is pinned on the offensive production of Ovechkin, he’ll need help from the second, third and fourth lines. The Capitals haven’t received a ton of scoring from its bottom six as Trotz continued to tinker with potential lineups late in the regular season. A boost could come from Lars Eller on the third line. In his ninth season, Eller is having a career year, scoring a career-high 18 goals and 20 assists in 81 games. Washington could also receive a lift from Jakub Vrana, who finished with 27 points in his 71 appearances. Has the defense stabilized? After losing three key starters during the offseason, Washington has had piecemeal defensive lineups for much of the year – which included relying on rookies Christian Djoos and Madison Bowey for much of the season – and has struggled to find consistency in the back end. The unit has seen an uptick after the trade deadline arrivals of Michal Kempny and Jakub Jerabek, with Washington allowing nearly two shots fewer per game after their arrival. [ Michal Kempny wasn’t a blockbuster get for the Capitals, but he could help like one ] Which rookies will step up?: Washington has a stable of rookies that have flashed their potential throughout the late stages of the season. Among them, Vrana has scored 13 goals. The 23-year-0ld Chandler Stephenson has been a versatile player whom Trotz has likened to a “wrench” who can fix a number of issues at different positions on the ice. Travis Boyd and Shane Gersich have been promising in the bottom-six shuffle since joining the Caps’ NHL roster. If Washington can get a contribution from this group, it could make a pivotal difference. More on the NHL: Training camp in April: Auditions still open for Capitals’ forward roles in playoffs ‘My regret is it wasn’t a 15-year contract’: Revisiting Alex Ovechkin’s deal before his 1,000th game Alex Ovechkin, on the verge of 1,000th NHL game, looks back at his first 82 Cal Ripken Jr. ‘can relate a little bit’ as Alex Ovechkin is honored for his 1,000th game