There are two demographic trends in the United States that, on their face, seem to indicate different things about the future of American politics. Over the next few decades, the Census Bureau estimates, America is going to get a lot older and a lot less white. Since 2000 alone, we can see a dramatic shift in age and racial density in the country. Since congressional districts change their boundaries over time, we can look at this at the county level. Between 2000 and 2016, 93.3 percent of counties registered an increase in the percentage of the population older than 64. Relatedly, 97.6 percent saw a decrease in the population of those younger than 18. And 94.9 percent of counties had a decrease in the density of their white populations. Why is this politically interesting? Because an aging population and a less-white population seem to be pointing national politics in two different directions. People 65 and older have voted for the Republican candidate in nine of the 12 elections since 1972, according to exit polls. (The exceptions were when Bill Clinton or Al Gore were the Democratic nominee.) Hispanics have voted for the Democratic candidate in each of those elections for which they were broken out as a demographic group. While recent data from Pew indicates that those ages 54 to 72 are about split between the two major parties, those 73 and up favor the Republicans by nine points. Millennials, on the other hand, favor the Democrats by 27. Among those places where the decrease in the density of the white non-Hispanic population has been the largest since 2000 is the Southwest: Texas, California and Arizona. On Tuesday, a special election in Arizona’s 8th Congressional District pits Republican Debbie Lesko against Democrat Hiral Tipirneni. Could the combination of demographics and a year in which other factors favor the Democratic Party mean that a district that favored Donald Trump in the 2016 race by 21 points will flip to blue? Well, no — for a variety of reasons. First of all, the partisan split in voter registration is substantial. There are nearly 188,000 registered Republicans in the district to 110,000 registered Democrats. There’s a reason Trump won by such a wide margin in the district: There are a lot more Republicans. Second, the demographics of the district aren’t very favorable to the Democrats. There is already a built-in disadvantage in comparing older voters with nonwhite voters: The latter vote much less reliably than the former. In Arizona’s 8th District, the population is much older than in most House districts (it has the 14th-highest density of voters older than 64) — and it’s more heavily white than most House districts. We’ve added Pennsylvania’s 18th District to that chart to show that demographics are not destiny in another way. In a special election in that district last month, the Democrats were victorious despite the district being one of the whitest in the country. Arizona’s 8th District is a Republican district. It was held by the same representative, Trent Franks, from its creation in 2013. The 2012 race was the only contested election in the district; the Democrats never bothered fielding candidates in 2014 and 2016. The marker of Democratic success in the race will be how much the district moves to the left far more than whether the party wins the seat. It will also be interesting to watch how Maricopa County, which is the home of the 8th District and makes up 61 percent of the state’s population, evolves over the next few decades. Since 2000, the percentage of the county’s population that is older than 64 has grown from 11.7 to 13.8 percent. The percentage of the population that is white non-Hispanic has fallen from 66.2 to 56.9 percent. But in the 8th District, those figures are much more favorable to the Republicans: 20.4 percent are older than 64, and 69.8 percent are white non-Hispanic. Not necessarily numbers that favor the Democrat in Tuesday’s contest.