Leaders of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee challenged Mike Pompeo on Thursday to explain how he would restrain President Trump from acting impulsively on the global stage, as the secretary of state nominee faced tough questions about his close relationship with the president. “Many strong voices have been terminated or resigned,” the panel’s chairman, Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), said as Pompeo’s confirmation hearing got underway. “It’s fair for our members to ask if your relationship is rooted in a candid, healthy, give-and-take dynamic or whether it’s based on deferential willingness to go along to get along.” Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), the top Democrat on the panel, asked: “Will you stand up to President Trump and say, ‘No, you are wrong in that view?’ Or will you be a yes man?” Pompeo stressed that as CIA director, “I was able to persuade him” when they disagreed on policy and that he would use their close relationship to influence the president in a positive direction. Former secretary of state Rex Tillerson left the helm of the State Department at the end of last month after a testy tenure. He had clashed with the president over several issues, particularly the Iran nuclear deal, on which Trump and Pompeo are more closely ideologically aligned. Pompeo fiercely opposed the Iran nuclear deal when he was a member of Congress, even floating the idea that a military strike on Iran’s nuclear capacity might be preferable to signing the pact. He said Thursday that he did not favor a first strike and that “the solution to preventing Iran from getting a nuclear weapon . . . is through diplomacy.” Pompeo’s criticism of the Iran deal inspired several questions as senators pressed him to clarify what he would do to rein in Tehran’s nuclear ambitions — especially if the parties to the pact cannot agree on a solution by May 12, when Trump has said he will cease extending the waivers that keep the United States in compliance with the agreement. Pompeo told the committee that he has “seen no evidence that [the Iranians] are not in compliance today” with the terms of the deal. But he did not indicate whether he would try to dissuade the president from ripping up the agreement if allies fail to come up with a plan for changes Trump has demanded before the deadline. “If there’s no chance that we can fix it, I will recommend to the president that we do our level best to work with our allies to achieve a better outcome and a better deal,” Pompeo said. “Even after May 12, there’s still much diplomatic work to be done.” Pompeo also rejected a suggestion from Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) that pulling out of the Iran deal could make it more difficult to persuade North Korea to sign onto a denuclearization deal — which Pompeo said was the administration’s No. 1 priority. “They might be concerned about our reliability in signing an agreement if the next president can simply exit,” Flake said. “The list of things that [North Korean leader Kim Jong Un] is thinking about don’t involve other deals throughout history,” Pompeo said. “He’s thinking about the sustainment of his regime . . . He’s going to be looking for something more than a piece of paper.” Pompeo offered support for the United States’ efforts to promote democracy overseas and tough words for Russia and its president, Vladi­mir Putin — pledging to senators to work “every day” to persuade the Trump administration to fully implement congressionally endorsed sanctions against Russia. He also bragged about a recent U.S. strike in Syria in which Russian mercenaries died, saying that “the Russians met their match, and a couple hundred Russians were killed” — the first admission from a U.S. government official that so many Russians had died in that attack, as Andrew S. Weiss from the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace pointed out. But Pompeo repeatedly refused to engage with senators who asked him to weigh in on Trump’s more incendiary statements about the legitimacy of special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s probe of alleged ties between the president and the Kremlin. He also said, in response to a question from Sen. Christopher A. Coons (D-Del.), that if faced with an existential impasse with Trump over policies that challenged American values, he would likely stay the course and not resign in protest. Though Pompeo’s close relationship with Trump was cause for some consternation at Thursday’s hearing, it is also seen as a potential asset in the State Department, which is reeling from vacancies and a generally depressed sense of morale that took hold under Tillerson. Pompeo already has built a reservoir of goodwill at the department. He has attended briefings and reached out to former diplomats to ask what works and what doesn’t. In contrast, Tillerson did not even speak with his immediate predecessor, John F. Kerry, before he arrived on the job. “I obviously have disagreements with him, on climate change or on the Iran nuclear deal,” said Nicholas Burns, a former career Foreign Service officer who rose to the third-highest position in the State Department. “But I do think he has leadership qualities. If he gets through, he has the potential to rebuild the State Department. That’s what we all want, a leader who can restore that and act on behalf of America.” [Pompeo: U.S. diplomats don’t feel ‘relevant’] The senators also raised concerns about how the Trump administration’s decision to depart the global Paris agreement on climate change might affect the United States’ standing in the world. “I share the president’s position, precisely,” Pompeo said. “The Paris agreement put an undue burden on the United States of America and that we should work to find a place where that is not the case, and when that moment arrives, we will be part of that discussion and reenter that agreement.” Pompeo also faced questions about his position on diversity, as Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) read some of Pompeo’s previous remarks about Muslim Americans, including a statement that Muslims have a “special obligation” to speak up about terrorism because those who stay “silent are complicit in those terrorist attacks.” world national-security  Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Checkpoint newsletter Military, defense and security at home and abroad. Please provide a valid email address. Pompeo said that he only meant Muslims had “an opportunity” to combat terrorism and that his record has been “exquisite with respect to treating people of each and every faith with the dignity they deserve.” Booker also asked Pompeo to account for a statement in which he seemingly said same-sex relations were a “perversion.” “When I was a politician, I had a very clear view . . . I continue to hold that view,” Pompeo said. But he stressed that “my respect for every individual, regardless of their sexual orientation, is the same.”