Game 4 Washington Capitals vs. Columbus Blue Jackets Series: Columbus leads, 2-1 Thursday, 7:30 p.m. ET, Nationwide Arena TV: USA • Despite blowing another lead, Washington heads into Game 4 trailing Columbus by just one game after a strange double-overtime goal by Lars Eller. (Read More) • Capitals defenseman John Carlson has seven points through the first three games of the series. (Read More) • With both teams playing an extra 47:24 in this series because there’s been so much overtime, fatigue could play a factor going forward. (Read More) Top story lines Top-six scoring: Washington’s top two lines finally got on the board at even strength in Game 3 with Tom Wilson’s goal, but the Capitals’ most skilled players have still struggled to get production outside of the power play. Meanwhile, Columbus has five even-strength goals from its top line alone. The Capitals have been carried by their bottom-six forward corps, goals from third-liners Devante Smith-Pelly and Lars Eller and fourth-line center Jay Beagle, but Washington needs its top players to contribute, too. With rookie Jakub Vrana playing in Andre Burakovsky’s second-line spot, Coach Barry Trotz thought he handled himself better in his second career playoff game. “I think he was just more relaxed,” Trotz said. “He knew he had experienced it, and I think it slowed down for him. I thought early in the game he was really dangerous. He had a couple of really good looks with [Nicklas Backstrom] and [T.J. Oshie]. I think he settled in pretty well for the most part. His speed obviously replaces Andre’s speed there. I thought for his first real game where he had to play really meaningful minutes, I thought he did areal good job.” Goaltending: The Capitals arguably played their best in Game 2, but they lost because Columbus goaltender Sergei Bobrovsky was the best player on the ice, making 54 saves. On Tuesday night, Blue Jackets Coach John Tortorella thought his team played its best game, and perhaps Columbus lost because of Braden Holtby. Holtby thought he was “rusty” with how he played the Blue Jackets’ first goal, but he finished with 33 saves, including seven in the first overtime period. When Trotz was asked if he’d be back in net for Game 4, he said, “I don’t think there’s any doubt about that.” Holtby owns the NHL’s second-best career postseason save percentage, and after how he struggled in the second half of the season, several players said he looked like his Vezina Trophy-winning self again in Game 3. The Capitals will need that form again to win Game 4 and return to Washington with the series tied. Djoos vs. Jerabek: Trotz made a small change on his blueline before Game 3, swapping rookie Christian Djoos for Jakub Jerabek. Djoos took three shots on goal and played 17:17 of the 89-minute game, and Trotz praised his performance in a conference call with reporters on Wednesday. “I thought he had a real strong game,” Trotz said. “The thing that he has is obviously that he’s got real good poise and hockey sense. I thought he came in and was fresh, he gave us meaningful minutes in terms of playing against some top-end guys at times. I thought he just managed the puck really well. I thought he showed a lot of poise for his first game.” Players to watch John Carlson: Carlson scored his first goal of these playoffs in Game 3 and now has one goal and six assists in the first three games of the series. According to the Elias Sports Bureau, Carlson became the first defenseman in franchise history to record seven points within the first three games of a series and the first Capitals player since 1990 to do so. Additionally, Carlson became just the seventh defenseman in NHL history to record seven points through the first three games. In 79 career playoff games, Carlson has 42 points (14 goals and 28 assists) and two game-winning goals. He scored a career-high 15 goals and 53 assists this season, and his 68 points led NHL defensemen. Pierre-Luc Dubois: The 19-year-old first-line center has two goals in this series and has outplayed two of the best centers in the league in Washington’s Evgeny Kuznetsov and Nicklas Backstrom. Trotz has had Kuznetsov matched against Dubois for the majority of the past two games, but while the Capitals’ top line has managed just one even-strength goal, the trio of Dubois, Artemi Panarin and Cam Atkinson has five. He played in every game this season, scoring 20 goals and 28 assists to set franchise rookie marks for goals, points and games played. Pregame reading Immerse yourself in the Capitals’ postseason with The Post’s coverage of the 2018 Stanley Cup playoffs: With minutes piling up for Capitals and Blue Jackets, fatigue could become a factor Seth Jones is following his father’s path — on ice, not the basketball court The D.C. sports trifecta didn’t happen, but Caps’ double-OT win was a jackpot moment ‘Weird things happen’: Lars Eller’s game-winner sums up Capitals playoff hockey Capitals’ Tom Wilson knows he has to be smarter and stay out of the penalty box Capitals-Blue Jackets Game 3: In a playoff plot twist, Washington’s familiar script ends with a win History not on Caps’ side, but they’ve erased 2-0 hole against John Tortorella before As Capitals run into another ‘hot goalie,’ they face their own net dilemma Penalties are a problem for Capitals, but a different stat could signal disaster Capitals’ Andre Burakovsky will miss at least two games with upper-body injury Sergei Bobrovsky is ‘dead on his game’ as Columbus staggers Washington in Game 2 Barry Svrluga: If the Capitals don’t get smarter, it soon will be too late for them to learn their lesson Capitals’ Kuznetsov, Blue Jackets’ Panarin shared a rink in Russia and the NHL playoff spotlight The Capitals and Blue Jackets are already bloody. There could be more to come. Barry Svrluga: It’s the Capitals. It’s the playoffs. And ‘easy’ just isn’t in the vocabulary. The Capitals preach quality over quantity when it comes to shots. Here’s what they mean. Barry Svrluga: For Capitals’ Barry Trotz, the future is at stake in these Stanley Cup playoffs Washington’s expected lineup Forwards Alex Ovechkin-Evgeny Kuznetsov-Tom Wilson Jakub Vrana-Nicklas Backstrom-T.J. Oshie Brett Connolly-Lars Eller-Devante Smith-Pelly Alex Chiasson-Jay Beagle-Chandler Stephenson Scratches: Andre Burakovsky (upper-body injury), Shane Gersich, Travis Boyd, Brian Pinho Defensemen Dmitry Orlov-Matt Niskanen Michal Kempny-John Carlson Brooks Orpik-Christian Djoos Scratches: Jakub Jerabek, Madison Bowey Goaltenders Braden Holtby (starter) Philipp Grubauer Scratch: Pheonix Copley Columbus’s expected lineup Forwards Artemi Panarin-Pierre-Luc Dubois-Cam Atkinson Boone Jenner-Nick Foligno-Thomas Vanek Matt Calvert-Brandon Dubinsky-Josh Anderson Sonny Milano-Mark Letestu-Oliver Bjorkstrand Defensemen Zach Werenski-Seth Jones Ian Cole-David Savard Ryan Murray-Markus Nutivaara Scratches: Markus Hannikainen, Alex Broadhurst, Taylor Chorney, Jack Johnson, Scott Harrington, Dean Kukan, Lukas Sedlak (upper body), Alexander Wennberg (upper body) Goaltenders Sergei Bobrovsky (starter) Joonas Korpisalo