WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP, Mich. — President Trump bragged about his economic and diplomatic accomplishments and savaged the media during a raucous rally Saturday before thousands of supporters in a state that is critical to his reelection hopes. The campaign-style event held at the Total Sports Park was billed as counter-programming to the annual White House Correspondents’ Association dinner in the nation’s capital, which the president skipped for the second consecutive year. “You may have heard I was invited to another event tonight,” the president told a crowd that began gathering under cloudy skies hours before the scheduled 7 p.m. kickoff. “I’d much rather be in Washington, Mich., than Washington, D.C.” The president treated the crowd, dotted with the familiar “Make America Great Again” hats, to his customary litany of immigration complaints, gibes at prominent Democrats including House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, and boasts about purchases of “brand-new” military equipment. The president also complained that the media had not given him sufficient credit for making possible Friday’s meeting between leaders of the two Koreas, saying he had “everything” to do with it. He also predicted that he would achieve the “all-time record” for appointing conservative judges and boasted that his tax and economic policies were working. “Let me tell you: Our country is doing great,” he said. Trump conceded that the stock market, which peaked in January and has gone sideways since then, has been hurt by his tough “America First” trade policies. But he said it was necessary to push China for concessions. “I can’t let other countries take advantage of us,” he said to cheers. Less than 20 minutes into the speech, as Trump jumped from assailing former FBI director James B. Comey to the European Union in a speech that appeared largely unscripted, some in the mostly white and older crowd headed for the exits. The rally, about 40 miles north of Detroit, capped another tumultuous week for Trump, including visits from French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel as well as controversy involving several members of his Cabinet. During Saturday’s rally, Trump reprised familiar talking points from his campaign, boasting about cutting taxes, spurring job growth and protecting American workers from unfair U.S. trading partners. Since Trump took office, the U.S. economy has added 2.7 million jobs — an average of 181,000 per month — while growth was fastest in counties that gave Trump the most votes, according to a Washington Post analysis of U.S. Labor Department data. On Saturday morning, the president previewed his appearance here by celebrating Michigan’s recent performance. “Major business expansion and jobs pouring into your State. Auto companies expanding at record pace,” he wrote on Twitter. Still, Michigan’s total employment grew a bit less over the past year than the national average, and its factories added jobs at only a quarter of the national pace, according to Labor Department statistics. Trump’s visit reflected the state’s role in his unlikely 2016 triumph and his prospects for reelection. Washington Township is in Macomb County, traditional home to the “Reagan Democrats” who helped Trump eke out a Michigan win by fewer than 11,000 votes. The township is 93 percent white and significantly more affluent than the county as a whole, according to the Census Bureau. As the crowd waited for the president to arrive, Michelle Kalil, 52, a physical therapist, praised Trump for reviving the economy. “I got some more money in my paycheck,” she said. “ I think he’s doing an amazing job and I’m glad he’s sticking to his guns.” Trump’s approval rating stood at 40 percent in a Washington Post-ABC News poll this month, up from 36 percent in January. More than half of those surveyed, 56 percent, said they disapproved of the president. The president also was greeted by a small group of protesters. Ryan Drutchas, 33, a high school science teacher, called Trump’s rhetoric “vile.” A former Republican voter and first-time protester, Drutchas said the rally stemmed from the former reality television star’s “narcissism. . . . It makes my skin crawl.” Trump’s campaign said in a statement that the rally was in “a completely different Washington” than the nation’s capital, where “the fake news media will be celebrating themselves with the denizens of Washington society in the swamp.” Trump also skipped the annual dinner last year, citing his animosity toward the media. But this year, he encouraged members of his administration to attend, and press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders plans to “represent the administration” at the head table, WHCA President Margaret Talev said. Trump is the first president to skip the dinner since Ronald Reagan, who missed it in 1981 while recovering from his wounds after an attempted assassination. During the rally, Trump called presidential physician Ronny L. Jackson, “a high-quality individual” and “a great American” who withdrew his bid to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs on Thursday amid allegations that he drank on the job, improperly dispensed medications and created a “toxic” work environment. The White House said Friday that a thorough review found no evidence that Jackson had behaved improperly, and on Saturday, Trump accused Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.), a leading Jackson critic, of a smear campaign and called for him to resign. “I know things about Tester that I can say, too,” Trump said at the rally. “And if I said them, he’d never be elected again.” Earlier, he had tweeted: “Secret Service has just informed me that Senator Jon Tester’s statements on Admiral Jackson are not true. There were no such findings.” The president’s claim went beyond a Secret Service statement Friday. The agency said only that a review of records offered no evidence of an allegation reported by CNN — that agents on a 2015 overseas trip had to stop Jackson, who was banging on a hotel room door, from disturbing then-President Barack Obama. Trump also said that he had a “a long and very good talk” Saturday morning with South Korean President Moon Jae-in, who met Friday with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. “Things are going very well, time and location of meeting with North Korea is being set,” Trump tweeted Saturday. “Also spoke to Prime Minister Abe of Japan to inform him of the ongoing negotiations.” Rachel Chason and Trevor Bach reported from Washington Township, Mich., and David J. Lynch reported from Washington, D.C.