Here we go again. The Nationals, Capitals and Wizards all play Tuesday night, with the latter two on the road for important playoff contests. Let’s hope the latest D.C. sports trifecta goes better than the previous one less than two weeks ago, when the Nationals lost their home opener to the Mets, the Capitals blew a third-period lead against the Predators and the Wizards dropped a close game to the Cavaliers. D.C.’s last trifecta involving a pair of playoff teams was even worse, despite featuring one fewer defeat. On May 10 of last year, the Capitals lost to the Penguins in Game 7 of their second-round series at home, and the Wizards were blown out in Game 5 of their second-round series against the Celtics. The Nationals’ walk-off win against the Orioles that night on Matt Wieters’s single warranted a single sentence at the bottom of The Post’s depressing Sports front the following day. While Post sports columnist Thomas Boswell suggested the D.C. Sports Troll was on the ropes before the Capitals’ latest chance to exorcise their playoff demons against Pittsburgh, fellow colleague Matt Bonesteel tried to warn us that betting on all three D.C. sports teams to win was a fool’s errand. Still, it’s not as if the Capitals and Wizards haven’t won playoff games on the same night as a Nationals victory before, and for some, the lure of making an optimistic wager on another D.C. sports trifecta will prove too difficult to ignore. With the Capitals and Wizards road underdogs against the Blue Jackets and Raptors, and the Nationals slight favorites in New York against the Mets, parlaying Tuesday’s D.C. sports slate at 12-to-1 odds could produce a nice payday. (All money lines and parlay calculations are from Bovada around 9 a.m. Tuesday morning.) D.C. Trifecta Nationals -120 Capitals +115 Wizards +245 Parlay pays out at +1259 (wager $100 to win $1259) The Capitals and Wizards have won playoff games on the same day twice in nine opportunities over their 43 seasons of coexistence. Both times featured wins at Toronto’s Air Canada Centre, by the Wizards over the Raptors in 2015 and the Capitals over the Maple Leafs last year. Guess where the Wizards look to even their series tonight. D.C. Playoff Double Capitals +115 Wizards +245 Parlay pays out at +641 (wager $100 to win $641) Of course, you could also bet against all three D.C. teams. The Capitals and Wizards have never both lost playoff games on the same day as a Nats loss, but there’s a first time for everything. Ultimate “Emotional Hedge” a.k.a. the D.C. Cry-fecta Mets Even Blue Jackets -135 Raptors -290 Parlay pays out at +368 (wager $100 to win $368) If the Capitals and Blue Jackets get to a Game 7 and the Wizards avoid a sweep, there will be another D.C. sports trifecta April 25, with the Nationals scheduled to play an afternoon game in San Francisco. More on D.C. sports: Bryce Harper broke a bat, hit a home run and trotted the bases with the handle sports  d-c-sports-bog Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. History not on Caps’ side, but they’ve erased 2-0 hole against John Tortorella before Thomas Boswell: John Wall needs to shoot the ball a whole lot less The best moments from Sunday’s Nats and Caps games took place in the stands