Game 5 Columbus Blue Jackets vs. Washington Capitals Series: Tied at 2-2 Saturday, 3 p.m. ET, Capital One Arena TV: NBC Top story lines | Players to watch | Pregame reading Top story lines Special teams have been key: Washington has scored seven power play goals in four games, which included a goal from T.J. Oshie in the second period of Thursday’s 4-1 win in Game 4. More crucial to the Capitals has been their penalty kill; after giving up four goals in eight power plays to Columbus in the first two games of the series, it has held the Blue Jackets scoreless on power plays each of the past two games. Washington had to kill just two power plays in Game 4, controlling the puck and showing more discipline than it had in its first two games of the series. “I think the first couple of games there was a ton of special teams so the five-on-five you don’t get that flow, you don’t get that momentum. I think [in Game 4] we were rolling the lines over,” forward Tom Wilson. “You feel the puck more, you get into it, you get some hits and everyone is feeling a little bit more comfortable. In the first period when there’s four or five penalties some guys don’t even go on the ice.” Caps must improve at home: Washington returns home after knotting the series with a pair of road wins in a difficult environment in Columbus, which included one of its most complete performances of the season in Game 4. The Capitals must find a way to play better at home if they are to advance; they have lost five of their last six postseason games at Capital One Arena, which included pair of overtime losses to the Blue Jackets last week and three losses to Pittsburgh in last year’s second round. Braden Holtby is locked in: After being benched in favor of Philipp Grubauer to begin the series, only to be called upon late in Game 2, Holtby has responded with a pair of promising performances. He was especially solid in a 4-1 win in Game 4, which marked the first time since November that he had given up just one goal in a game. Washington’s defense also picked it up with a cleaner showing – Columbus had just two power play opportunities, while star forward Artemi Panarin was held in check – but Holtby did his part with 24 saves. “I thought we were strong in front of the net. I think they did a really good job of creating traffic, not wasting shots. Most of the shots they got had some sort of net presence or something like that from the end zone standpoint and I thought our guys did a great job of blocking shots, tying up sticks, limiting deflections, making those plays that can become dangerous less dangerous by battling and being full committed,” Holtby said. “All six of them and our forwards to in those positions I thought did a great job of that. We know we’re going to have to do more of that to succeed in Game 5.” Players to watch Nicklas Backstrom: The veteran forward posted five assists in the first three games but all of his scoring has come off the power play. Washington needs more from him in even-strength situations and capitalize on Columbus’s Alex Wennberg’s absence from the lineup. Washington received more production from its top line– including goals from Alex Ovechkin and Tom Wilson – but could still use a spark from Backstrom and the second line at five-on-five. Seth Jones: Jones wasn’t among the finalists announced for the Norris Trophy — given to the league’s top defenseman – but he remains capable of altering this series with his two-way game. Not only does Jones offer physicality in the back-end (15 blocks and nine hits in the series) alongside Zach Werenski, but he’s also proven that he can produce plenty of offense – he scored a crucial goal in Game 1 and has taken seven shots over his last three games. He’s also become more of presence in the locker room – Blue Jackets Coach John Tortorella said this week that Jones had taken to mentoring Werenski – and his leadership will be counted on as Columbus tries to win its first playoff series in franchise history. Pregame reading Immerse yourself in the Capitals’ postseason with The Post’s coverage of the 2018 Stanley Cup playoffs: John Carlson continues to build on stellar postseason reputation Andre Burakovsky needs surgery, out for rest of the first round With minutes piling up for Capitals and Blue Jackets, fatigue could become a factor Seth Jones is following his father’s path — on ice, not the basketball court The D.C. sports trifecta didn’t happen, but Caps’ double-OT win was a jackpot moment ‘Weird things happen’: Lars Eller’s game-winner sums up Capitals playoff hockey Capitals’ Tom Wilson knows he has to be smarter and stay out of the penalty box Capitals-Blue Jackets Game 3: In a playoff plot twist, Washington’s familiar script ends with a win History not on Caps’ side, but they’ve erased 2-0 hole against John Tortorella before As Capitals run into another ‘hot goalie,’ they face their own net dilemma Penalties are a problem for Capitals, but a different stat could signal disaster Capitals’ Andre Burakovsky will miss at least two games with upper-body injury Sergei Bobrovsky is ‘dead on his game’ as Columbus staggers Washington in Game 2 Barry Svrluga: If the Capitals don’t get smarter, it soon will be too late for them to learn their lesson Capitals’ Kuznetsov, Blue Jackets’ Panarin shared a rink in Russia and the NHL playoff spotlight Washington’s expected lineup Forwards Alex Ovechkin-Evgeny Kuznetsov-Tom Wilson Chandler Stephenson-Nicklas Backstrom-T.J. Oshie Brett Connolly-Lars Eller-Devante Smith-Pelly Jakub Vrana-Jay Beagle-Alex Chiasson Scratches: Andre Burakovsky (upper-body injury), Shane Gersich, Travis Boyd, Brian Pinho Defensemen Dmitry Orlov-Matt Niskanen Michal Kempny-John Carlson Brooks Orpik-Christian Djoos Scratches: Jakub Jerabek, Madison Bowey Goaltenders Braden Holtby (starter) Philipp Grubauer Scratch: Pheonix Copley Columbus’s expected lineup Forwards Artemi Panarin-Pierre-Luc Dubois-Cam Atkinson Boone Jenner-Nick Foligno-Thomas Vanek Matt Calvert-Brandon Dubinsky-Josh Anderson Sonny Milano-Mark Letestu-Oliver Bjorkstrand Defensemen Zach Werenski-Seth Jones Ian Cole-David Savard Ryan Murray-Markus Nutivaara Scratches: Markus Hannikainen, Alex Broadhurst, Taylor Chorney, Jack Johnson, Scott Harrington, Dean Kukan, Lukas Sedlak (upper body), Alexander Wennberg (upper body) Goaltenders Sergei Bobrovsky (starter) Joonas Korpisalo