ATLANTA — Matt Wieters dropped 15 or so pounds this offseason, hoping a reconstructed physique would facilitate a bounceback season. But his pursuit of rejuvenation stalled after just two games, as the Nationals placed him on the disabled list Monday. He is dealing with what the team calls a mild strain of his left oblique, a problem Wieters felt initially late in spring training, then more seriously in the fifth inning of Saturday’s game against the Reds. “We don’t want to take a chance. He’s got a very slight, mild strain in his oblique,” Nationals Manager Dave Martinez said. “Rather than let it become a really big issue, we figured we’d give it the 10 days and get it taken care of and get him going again.” The Nationals recalled Pedro Severino to take Wieters’s place on the roster. The 25-year-old was on his way to Atlanta on Sunday morning before the Nationals even took the field at Cincinnati’s Great American Ball Park, which suggests they played with a three-man bench. Severino appeared in 17 games for the Nationals last season and will start against the Braves Monday. He and veteran Miguel Montero will split time in Wieters’s absence. While Severino is right-handed and Montero left-handed, setting the stage for a natural platoon, Martinez said he would not decide their playing time by the handedness of the pitcher alone. “We’re just going to kind of mix and match,” Martinez said. Montero is 34 years old and is 0 for 3 in one start this season. He is an inferior defender to Severino, but a far more experienced pitch caller, something several Nationals starters have praised so far. Evaluators also consider Montero a strong pitch framer, though advanced stats suggest Severino is just as good, if not better. In Severino, the Nationals have something they do not have when Wieters is healthy — a plus defender behind the plate. Severino has been playing in minor league spring training games in West Palm Beach, Fla., and was packing for Class AAA Syracuse when he got the call. He and Montero competed for the backup job all spring, though Nationals management opted for experience and to let Severino play every day in the minors. “I just said it’s fine, I have to keep working until they need me and be ready,” Severino said. “Then this happened to Wieters, and hope it’s nothing big and he’s coming back soon.” Wieters showed no overt signs of trouble in the first two games of the season, when he went 1 for 7 with two walks and a run. He seemed to direct Max Scherzer and Stephen Strasburg through their starts without incident. Wieters finished that game Saturday, but knew the injury had regressed instead of progressed. He showed no obvious signs of trouble Sunday, either, except that he was the only position player not on the field for batting practice. Because he did not play in Sunday’s win, Wieters’s disabled list stint will be retroactive to Sunday, meaning he will be eligible to come off the disabled list next week. “All of my strength tests, things like that they test really well. If it was a serious strain I wouldn’t have the strength in it that I have for it now,” Wieters said. “But I think the big thing is we want to make sure we catch it early and get it right before we get back out there. … I’m optimistic that hopefully when these 10 days are up, I’ll be ready to come off.” When Montero needed someone to catch a few warmups while he put on his gear between innings, Wieters took the job. He got in his squat and looked perfectly normal. But when he threw back to the pitcher, he did so with a truncated delivery that indicated some reluctance to complete a normal follow-through. He said he felt a little trouble for weeks, but that trainers had helped him get the injury to a point he could play every day — and planned to do so without concern that the injury would get worse. Then it got worse. “We were kind of going along that path and I was fine with [playing through it] because we were getting it ready for every game,” Wieters said. “But the side was fatiguing as the game went on, so it was a matter of — it’s day two of the season. When you’re getting fatigued in the sixth inning with some of the muscles, it’s time to take a step back and get them strong and go from there.” Wieters won’t swing during this series in Atlanta, but will spend more time than usual strengthening his core as part of his rehabilitation regimen. Read more: Nationals vs. Braves series preview: Washington gets its first crack at an NL East foe sports  washington-nationals Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. A Reds fan called Bryce Harper ‘overrated.’ The slugger answered with his second home run. Bryce Harper leads a power surge as Nationals complete sweep against Reds Sammy Solis, as important to the bullpen as ever, starts his season strong