The Washington Nationals host their home opener against the New York Mets at Nationals Park at 1:05 p.m. We will have live updates throughout, so keep checking back. And The Post’s Adam Kilgore will be answering your questions in the comments, so join the discussion below! Opening Day at Nationals Park started with a bang. The Washington Nationals extended General Manager Mike Rizzo’s contract through 2020, a move the team announced early Thursday morning. The day will continue with the usual pomp and circumstance, then Stephen Strasburg takes the mound at 1:05 p.m. against Mets starter Jacob DeGrom in a matchup between two of the best No. 2 starters in the sport. The Nationals are fresh off six road games in six days to launch their 2018 season. Gates open at Nats Park at 11 a.m. (Here’s what you need to know about getting there.) Pregame ceremonies are slated to begin at 12:15 p.m. Deputy First Class Blaine Gaskill, whose rapid response to a gunman at Great Mills High School last month helped bring the incident to an end, will throw out the ceremonial first pitch. The forecast calls for mostly sunny skies and temperatures in the high 40s at first pitch, which is scheduled for 1:05 p.m. Strasburg will bat eighth for the first time this season, joined in the lineup by the usual suspects — Adam Eaton leading off, Bryce Harper hitting third, and Ryan Zimmerman at first. This will be Dave Martinez’s first regular-season lineup at Nationals Park. For a full series preview, click here. * * * * * Lineups: WASHINGTON NATIONALS (4-2) Adam Eaton LF Anthony Rendon 3B Bryce Harper RF Ryan Zimmerman 1B Howie Kendrick 2B Trea Turner SS Miguel Montero C Stephen Strasburg P Michael A. Taylor CF NEW YORK METS (4-1) TBA * * * * * Going to the game? Here are a few things to know: — Last month, the Nationals cut ties with Mike Isabella in the wake of news that the celebrity chef and four of his business partners were named in a sexual harassment lawsuit filed by a former top manager at his company. While the team was already planning to replace two of Isabella’s concession concepts — Kapnos at the Park and Catchfly — at Nationals Park this season, the allegations prompted the Nationals to also remove Isabella’s popular G sandwich stand. At Thursday’s home opener against the Mets, the Nationals will debut an entirely new concept in its place. Grace’s Kitchen, named after former first lady Grace Coolidge, will offer a rotating menu of items developed by local female business owners, chefs, and restaurateurs; the featured female partners and dishes will change throughout the season. — What else is new inside Nationals Park? Try a revamped play area for kids, alcoholic juice boxes for adults and a variety of new hot dogs, for starters. Scott Allen has a full roundup of the additions to the ballpark. Outside the park, meanwhile, there are a few fresh places to pregame near the stadium, including Aslin Beer Garden and two pizza options, Declaration and All-Purpose Pizzeria. The beloved Bullpen bar and Bardo are back, as well. — Let’s talk beer. The Nationals announced they will introduce 24- and 25-ounce large-format beer options throughout Nationals Park for the first time this season, but they didn’t offer much in the way of pricing information. A tweeted photo of a concession stand advertising craft draft beer for $16 led to people freaking out. Don’t freak out, writes Scott Allen. — Planning to watch the game? That could be difficult if you’re a cord cutter. * * * * * More reading: — Meet the Nationals’ new manager, Dave Martinez, who is making his players chill out. Martinez spent 10 seasons at the side of Joe Maddon, winning a World Series with the Cubs in 2016. In a profile of Martinez during the offseason, Chelsea Janes revealed that perhaps his best quality is connecting with players. — Speaking of managers, Dave Sheinin caught up with ex-Nationals manager Dusty Baker last week, who told him, “You can make peace with [how Baker was let go in Washington], but it makes you kind of lose some faith in mankind.” — On the field, this season is all about Bryce Harper. This might be the most scrutinized season of Harper’s career, as he approaches free agency. And yet … “I think the thing that surprises you is that while he embraces the spotlight he gets, it may not be what he wants. He just wants to play baseball,” Matt Wieters said. — The Nationals finallllllllllly have some bullpen stability. But even so, questions remain. “I want none of those guys getting hurt,” Martinez said. By the way, that bullpen features a closer with a big personality and a wife who is a star on social media. Sean Doolittle and Eireann Dolan may be baseball’s most woke couple. — Notice anything missing on the Nationals this year? Possibly a hirsute outfielder? There’s a Jayson Werth-shaped hole in the Nationals clubhouse, but they’re filling the void by committee. Someone else who’s not here (though this guy could be soon): Victor Robles, the Nationals’ star of the future. Jorge Castillo spent time with Robles in his native Dominican Republic earlier this year and found a humble player with designs on being great. — Read our full season preview here. And one more reminder: You can chat with our Adam Kilgore in the comments below!