Secretary of state nominee Mike Pompeo probably will not earn the support of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Monday. But he has all but clinched a full Senate confirmation vote when it comes up later this week, after two more Democrats announced their support Monday. In a statement, Sen. Joe Manchin III (W.Va.) said he thinks Pompeo “will bring a unique perspective to the State Department and is the right person to lead the department,” adding that the nominee “will represent our interests well across the world and provide wise counsel to President Trump on our foreign policy.” Sen. Joe Donnelly (Ind.) also voiced his support in a statement Monday afternoon, calling Pompeo “capable of advancing U.S. interests and leading the State Department.” Manchin and Donnelly are the second and third Senate Democrats to announce their backing for Pompeo, after Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (N.D.) announced hers last week. Together, their support is more than enough to offset the Republican votes Pompeo may lose on the floor: Sen. Rand Paul (Ky.) has said he will not vote for his confirmation, while Sen. Jeff Flake (Ariz.) has declined to support the nominee, saying last week he’s “not there.” The three Democratic votes will do nothing to improve Pompeo’s chances of earning a positive recommendation from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, which votes on his nomination Monday. There is strong Democratic opposition to Pompeo’s nomination on the 21-member panel, which is split between 11 Republicans and 10 Democrats. Two of those Republicans are Paul and Flake. [Mounting opposition to Pompeo makes positive Senate committee vote unlikely] Pompeo’s supporters have argued that the committee is not representative of the full Senate. Last week, Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) told reporters that “the Senate will set [the panel] straight” if it refuses to endorse Pompeo’s nomination. Cotton also issued a threat to Democratic senators such as Manchin and Heitkamp who are facing difficult elections, noting that if they oppose Pompeo “and they’re up for reelection, they may suffer the consequences.” Fourteen Democrats voted last year to confirm Pompeo as CIA director. Several of them have declared that they will not back his bid to be the country’s top diplomat, over concerns about his policy positions — and doubts that he would stand up to the president when necessary. On Monday, White House officials again urged Senate Democrats to back Pompeo’s nomination, with White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders saying on Fox News Channel that the White House “hope[s] that some members will change their minds.” The appeal seems to be mostly about saving face for Pompeo’s nomination. If he does not earn the committee’s support, it will be the first time in nearly a century that a secretary of state nominee did not receive that backing. It would not prevent the committee from sending Pompeo’s nomination to the floor with an unfavorable recommendation, where there appears to be enough bipartisan support to carry his nomination. Senate leaders are expected to put Pompeo’s nomination to a floor vote by the full Senate later this week. John Wagner contributed to this report. Read more at PowerPost