Scott Brooks had seen enough. Late in the fourth quarter of the Washington Wizards’ loss to the Atlanta Hawks, Mike Muscala hit an open three-pointer to give the worst team in the Eastern Conference a lead it would not relinquish. Brooks responded by calling a timeout, and he walked onto the court covering his face with the palms of his hands. The Hawks’ 103-97 win Friday night was tough to take in for the Wizards coach. It was his team’s fourth straight defeat with the playoffs looming, and he did not hold back in his diagnosis of the Wizards’ ills.  “Selfish basketball is no fun to coach, it’s no fun to play with, and it’s no fun to watch,” Brooks said, “and we’re a selfish basketball team right now.” After the Wizards’ bad losses — and there have been plenty — Brooks has fumed while sharing his postgame thoughts. In the past, he has threatened to tear apart the rotation, called out specific players and ranted about millionaires who refuse to show effort. In Friday’s postgame news conference, Brooks hit the trifecta. [John Wall is playing like an all-star, but the chemistry is missing] On the defense that allowed Atlanta to make 11 three-pointers, including the backbreaker from Muscala: “We got to start guarding somebody, and we got to start moving the basketball the way we’re capable of doing it. If we’re not going to do that, I’ll find five guys to do that. I don’t care how small we are or how big we are.” On Markieff Morris picking up a pair of technical fouls in the first quarter: “You can’t get frustrated enough to get thrown out of a game, especially when we’re shorthanded. . . . He knows that. He’s been in this league long enough, and we cannot continue to put ourselves in those positions.” And on the Wizards (42-38) dragging through 48 minutes against a team bent on losing to secure a top lottery pick: “To me, it’s not an embarrassing loss to lose to Atlanta with their guys out. It’s embarrassing that we don’t play with the passion that we need to play at.” This time next week, the Wizards will be preparing for Game 1 of their playoff series. Whether they will start in Toronto (as the current seeding would dictate because the Wizards dropped to eighth place), Boston, Cleveland or Philadelphia has yet to be determined. And at this point, the opponent shouldn’t matter. The fact that it will be a playoff team should provide the Wizards some consolation — on Thursday night, Washington and the Cleveland Cavaliers played an entertaining game that oozed with postseason energy. But conference doormats such as the Hawks (23-57)? They bore the Wizards into a stupor. “You have to respect everyone who plays in the NBA,” point guard Tomas Satoransky said. “Everyone in the NBA is good, and you have to respect that, and I feel like we didn’t do this today. It’s bad from all of us. You just have to blame all of us because it’s a team sport and we really have to do better.” [How Kyrie Irving’s injury impacts the Celtics this season and beyond] For most of the game, the Wizards didn’t bother playing defense. Atlanta had six players score in double figures — including reserves Tyler Dorsey (22) and Damion Lee (11) — and shot 48.1 percent from the field. The Wizards yawned at the prospect of running an offense — the cacophony of clanked jumpers filled the void inside an otherwise silent Capital One Arena. Bradley Beal dominated the offense, likely out of necessity. John Wall did not play on the second night of a back-to-back set. That — and Morris’s ejection — left the Wizards without two starters. Beal reacted by taking 24 shots, nearly three times as many as Otto Porter Jr., the starter with the next highest total. Beal finished with 32 points on 50 percent shooting, but as a unit, Washington shunned “Everybody Eats” for a less-effective method: “Nobody Passes.” Center Marcin Gortat led the team with four assists, and Brooks was asked afterward why a team that had been praised for sharing the ball had stopped doing it. “Yeah, maybe they’re listening to all the praise,” Brooks said. “Can’t listen to the praise. You just got to do what you do, and that’s passing the ball. We haven’t passed in the past couple of weeks.” Beal left the locker room before reporters were allowed to enter. Morris did not stick around, either, continuing his trend for the night. sports wizards  Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. Morris began the game at power forward, and 7:49 into the first quarter, he had attempted six shots, scored four points, grabbed two rebounds and earned two technical fouls. When official Leroy Richardson issued the two quick technicals, he gestured off the court to signal the ejection. Morris slowly moved to the scorer’s table, then eventually to the locker room. His teammates remained on the court and played basketball at the same slothful pace. “It’s not a divided team. It’s a together team, but if we’re going to talk about doing things, we’ve got to do it with our actions,” Brooks said. “We got to guard somebody. Our perimeter defense is porous. It’s embarrassing we get beat backdoors after backdoors. But I got to do a better job, and I have to figure out going into the playoffs who’s going to be able to not make mistakes as many times that we do.” More on the Wizards and the NBA: A double tap, a head bob, a floor brush. The Wizards’ handshakes, explained. Video: Watch how the Wizards get ready for a game This again? T-shirt company thinks the Wizards play in Washington state. With 2K League draft mirroring NBA draft, pro league shows it’s serious about esports