Bob Beattie, a ski-racing pioneer who helped launch the Alpine Skiing World Cup circuit, was a commentator at four Winter Olympics and coached the U.S. national and University of Colorado ski teams, died April 1 in Fruita, Colo. He was 85. His son, Zeno Beattie, confirmed the death but did not give a specific cause. Known as “Beats” or “Coach” to his friends, Mr. Beattie was perhaps best known for being part of the ABC commentary crew that called one of the most thrilling Alpine races in history, Austrian great Franz Klammer’s gold medal-winning downhill run at the 1976 Winter Games. “He’s right on the edge!” Mr. Beattie said as Klammer came close to falling, later adding, “I’ve never seen so much pressure on one skier in my entire life.” Mr. Beattie (pronounced be-AT-tee) was paired with commentator Frank Gifford for the race. “They realized Bob Beattie and I had a peculiar way of calling it,” Gifford told the Archive of American Television. “Bob loved ski racing. . . . He would get so excited at the race. My job was almost like ‘Monday Night Football,’ identify the players and let him go. He brought an unbelievable excitement to it.” Robert Prime Beattie was born in Manchester, N.H., on Jan. 24, 1933. He attended Middlebury College in Vermont, where he lettered in tennis, skiing, football and cross-country running. He became the ski coach after graduating in 1955, and his team finished third at the NCAA championships the following year. Soon after, he went to the University of Colorado, where he worked as an assistant football coach before taking over the ski program and winning national titles in 1959 and 1960. The National Ski Association named Mr. Beattie the first U.S. national team coach in 1961, and he oversaw the ski team at the 1964 Olympic Games, where Billy Kidd and Jimmie Heuga won silver and bronze medals, respectively, in the slalom. “The pressure was severe. We had promised everything. Rightfully or wrongfully, we had promised everyone the world,” Mr. Beattie told U.S. ski team historian Tom Kelly last year. In the mid-1960s, Mr. Beattie partnered with journalist Serge Lang and French coach Honoré Bonnet to create the World Cup, with racers traveling the world to compete. It now features stars such as Lindsey Vonn, Mikaela Shiffrin and Marcel Hirscher. Mr. Beattie’s broadcast career included stints calling volleyball at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, hosting a ski show for ESPN and appearing on ABC’s “Wide World of Sports.” In 1984, he was inducted into the U.S. Ski and Snowboard Hall of Fame. Mr. Beattie also wrote several books on skiing and started a program to offer affordable skiing for children near Aspen, Colo., where he spent much of his life after 1970. He was married four times, according to a Team USA obituary. Survivors include his wife, Marci Beattie; two children, Susan Crabtree and Zeno Beattie; six grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren. Read more  Washington Post obituaries  Herbert Kaiser, who helped train black medical professionals in South Africa, dies at 94 Anna Chennault, secret Nixon envoy and Washington figure of ‘glamour and mystery,’ dies at 94 Frances L. Lloyd, scientist who made key contributions to voltage standards, dies at 94