The Washington Wizards stumbled into the postseason, losing five of their last six games, and they have lost the first two games of their series on the road to the Toronto Raptors. Here’s all the information you need to follow this first-round series. This post will be updated with results and news throughout. Series overview: Raptors 2, Wizards 0 2018 NBA Playoffs, Round 1: Washington Wizards (No. 8 seed, 43-39, 2nd in Southeast Division) vs. Toronto Raptors (No. 1 seed, 59-23, 1st in Atlantic Division) Schedule and results Game 1: at Raptors 114, Wizards 106 Game 2: at Raptors 130, Wizards 119 Game 3: Friday, at Washington, 8 p.m., NBCSW and ESPN2 Game 4: Sunday, April 22, at Washington, 6 p.m., NBCSW and TNT Game 5 (if necessary): Wednesday, April 25, at Toronto, time TBD, NBCSW Game 6 (if necessary): Friday, April 27, at Washington, time TBD, NBCSW Game 7 (if necessary): Sunday, April 29, at Toronto, time and television TBD Review and preview How Toronto Got Here: After being swept in the second round last year, the Raptors found themselves at a crossroads. But instead of moving on from their core, or firing Coach Dwane Casey, Toronto opted to keep everyone together, and Casey entered training camp intent on changing the way the team played. Not only was he successful — turning the isolation-heavy Raptors into a team that spreads the ball around and fires up threes — but Toronto has had the best season in franchise history as a result. Now comes the final frontier: a deep playoff run that includes truly challenging LeBron James. How Washington Got Here: Washington is the opposite of Miami. The Wizards have the kind of playoff-proven, top-end talent the Heat lack in John Wall and Bradley Beal, but none of the certainty in effort and execution Miami is known for. The Wizards have stumbled their way down the stretch while Wall rehabbed from knee surgery, only seeing him return in the last two weeks. Washington is good enough to reach the conference finals and give anyone — including the Cleveland Cavaliers — a series, and it is inconsistent enough to lose in five games in the first round. Opening thoughts: What was Toronto’s reward for having the best season in franchise history? A playoff path that potentially takes them through the three most talented teams in the Eastern Conference playoffs — the Wizards, Cavaliers and Philadelphia 76ers — to reach the NBA Finals for the first time. First, though, the Raptors will try to break a nine-game losing streak in Game 1 of playoff series — a streak everyone in Toronto is now terrified will extend to 10 games. The fact the Raptors are facing the Wizards — who swept them in the first round in 2015 — won’t help matters. That said, it’s anyone’s guess which version of the Wizards will show up. Washington would be the seventh seed if it had managed to beat just one of three tanking teams — Atlanta, Chicago or Orlando) — it played in April alone. Instead, the Wizards lost to them all — though John Wall did sit out all three of those games. But Washington does have an all-star backcourt to match Toronto’s, and this should be a far more competitive series than a typical No. vs. No. 8 matchup. — Tim Bontemps Season series recap: 2-2 Nov. 5: Wizards 107, at Raptors 96 Nov. 19: at Raptors 100, Wizards 91 Feb. 1: at Wizards 122, Raptors 119 March 2: Raptors 102, at Wizards 95 The latest >> The Wizards didn’t seem disappointed by their Game 2 loss, so Jerry Brewer wonders: maybe they’re too chill for their own good? “It would be understandable if they had reason to brush off the game as an aberration, if they were a team that didn’t have recurring problems with focus and transferring preparation onto the court. But that is part of their enigmatic identity. You needed the reassurance of feeling their emotions and sensing their urgency. You will have to trust them, however. Good luck.” >> Any way you judge the Wizards — with or without John Wall, at their best or worst, home or road, bickering or harmonious, big game or run-of-the-mill affair — they do one thing with stunning consistency: Flub the fourth quarter. They close games like they are trying to slam the heaviest door ever made. If they don’t summon more late-game strength, their season of what ifs and not quites will end with a few last “We had ’em, but . . . ” regrets, writes Jerry Brewer. >> John Wall thought he was “fat” when the season opened. During this two-month layoff to rehab from knee surgery, Wall and his personal remolded his diet and body. He’s dropped almost 15 pounds, enabling him to play lighter on his feet. Here’s how that diet looks. Speaking of Wall, Tom Boswell thinks the Wizards star needs to shoot a whole lot less. >> Ty Lawson, who agreed Friday to a deal with the Wizards for the rest of the season, did not play in Game 1 against the Toronto Raptors, but he has more postseason experience over the past two weeks than anyone in this series. Still, it’s unclear whether Lawson will actually see minutes. >> The Raptors and Wizards are such comparable peers. They’ve both been building toward their current rosters since 2010. They both broke through to the playoffs in 2014. But after the Wizards swept the Raptors in the 2015 playoffs, Toronto made the conference final the next season while Washington still hasn’t advanced beyond the second round. So while the Wizards and Raptors once had similar trajectories, now Toronto has clearly surged ahead, writes Jerry Brewer. >> No one player can be blamed for the Wizards’ defensive mistakes in Game 1. But Kelly Oubre Jr. often draws the ire of his coach because he flashes so much skill on the defensive end but negates the potential with youthful miscues. He played 10 fewer minutes than his season average in Saturday’s game as a result. >>The top of the Wizards’ roster might be a little better than the Raptors’ best players. On Saturday night, however, the Raptors sent a strong initial message about who they are during a 114-106 victory in Game 1 at Air Canada Centre. In short, they’re better — clearly better — than Washington, writes Jerry Brewer. These aren’t two teams striding alongside each other on the same journey. The Raptors have pulled ahead, and if you’re expecting them to slow down so the Wizards can catch up, that’s not how this is going to go. If the Wizards hope to win this series — or even become a threat to win — they will have to accelerate. >> Anyone expecting Wizards guards John Wall and Bradley Beal to preview their first-round tilt against the Raptors by proclaiming themselves as “the best backcourt in the NBA” will be disappointed. Washington’s duo holds their northern rivals’ Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan in high esteem. >> While Toronto is the East’s top seed, the Wizards are still attempting to complete the task of finding themselves, which might be a greater challenge than the daunting opponent, writes Jerry Brewer. >> In his postseason predictions, Tim Bontemps writes of Raptors-Wizards, “I want to pick Washington to win this series. The Wizards match up well with Toronto and have shown no fear for them this season … But it’s just impossible to put that much faith in this Wizards team after the way they’ve played this season.” He says it’s Toronto in seven games. >> Though they’re the underdogs, the Wizards view a matchup with Toronto much more favorably than some of the other teams with lower seeds. And while the Wizards struggled all season with under .500 teams, just as they did on Wednesday in the loss to the Magic, they knocked off nine playoff-bound opponents after the all-star break. They also split the regular-season series with Toronto, players reasoned, and five-time all-star John Wall didn’t play a second in the four games. >> Bradley Beal reached a personal milestone, playing all 82 games of the regular season. It’s the first time in his six years as a professional that he can claim the Iron Man distinction. But here’s the downside of the 82-game distinction: Beal enters the postseason having logged more minutes than any playoff-bound Washington player since 2008. >> The Wizards’ struggles over the last couple weeks of the regular season were cause for much hand-wringing in Washington. Coach Scott Brooks used words like “selfish” and “embarrassing.” Among the possible reasons for the slide? Teams figuring out the sets Brooks ran when Wall was sidelined, according to one NBA scout. “If you run the same things week in and week out and those things don’t change, those become stale,” said the scout, who saw the Wizards several times both with and without Wall. “The league doesn’t take that long to adjust to that.” >> Speaking of Brooks labeling the Wizards, he has often used the word “unacceptable” to describe his team’s play. Actually, we compiled all the times Brooks and Beal said that very word. >> John Wall returned from his injury and resumed his all-star status by averaging a double-double in points and assists. But Wall and his Wizards teammates are trying to rekindle their chemistry of the past, and their efforts have produced moments of miscommunication. >> You see it before every game: A double tap, a head bob, a floor brush. Here are the Wizards’ pregame handshakes, explained. >> Regular season success isn’t foreign to the Raptors, who have exceeded 50 wins each of the past two seasons. But in the postseason, the Raptors have clammed up, needing every ounce of their energy to escape from their first-round series and then continuing to struggle against actual contenders. Tim Bontemps explains how Toronto changed its approach this season in hopes of getting a different result. >> The Raptors have the NBA’s best bench and have had a strong reserve unit for a while — their 2015 team actually had a higher bench BPM than their starters, which is unprecedented for a good team. But the reliance on the bench is also one of the causes of Toronto’s disappointing playoff results. Here’s a deeper look at the Raptors bench, with some names you may not recognize who are making a big impact. sports  washington-wizards Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. >> Neil Greenberg crunched the numbers and the Raptors have the second-best chances of winning the title this season at 22.1 percent. The Wizards? Eh, you don’t want to know. But there’s better news for the Wizards: Washington has a 12 percent chance of upsetting Toronto in the opening round. So that’s something! >> Finally, here’s a complete schedule for the NBA’s first round, with some quick analysis from Tim Bontemps. More Wizards | NBA news | Post Sports | Post Sports on Facebook