Rescuers are continuing to look for three missing children by searching the route that their family might have traveled before their SUV plunged 100 feet down a Northern California cliff more than a week ago. The SUV, which authorities said was carrying a family of eight, was found upside down and partially submerged at the bottom of the cliff off the Pacific Coast Highway in Mendocino County. Found inside were the bodies of the two parents and three of their six adopted children. The other three are feared dead, and authorities said their bodies could have been washed away by the strong currents. The California Highway Patrol said on Monday that agencies are also focusing their efforts on water rescue and recovery. The deaths have raised troubling questions about the family’s history and what may have preceded the crash, which investigators suspect was not an accident. Officials said they have searched the family’s home in Washington state, as well as the couple’s bank and credit card statements and phone records, for any signs of what may have led to their deaths. They said they have not found suicide notes. national  post-nation Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false About US newsletter Candid conversations about identity in 21st-century America Please provide a valid email address. Greg Baarts, acting assistant chief of the California Highway Patrol’s northern division, said investigators have yet to find signs of an accident, such as tire or skid marks, or evidence suggesting the driver had lost control. Preliminary data obtained from the SUV’s air bag module suggests the vehicle likely came to a stop at a gravel pullout roughly 70 feet away from the cliff before it accelerated and “went straight off the edge,” he said. Investigators also said the speedometer was “pinned” at 90 mph when the vehicle was found. But Baarts said this does not mean the SUV was traveling at that speed before it plunged. It’s also likely the speedometer was affected by the impact or was “unintentionally manipulated” during recovery efforts, Baarts said. [ SUV carrying family appears to have been intentionally driven off California cliff, police say ] Killed in the crash were the driver, Jennifer Jean Hart, her wife, Sarah Margaret Hart, and at least three of their children: Markis, 19, Jeremiah, 14, and Abigail, 14. The others — Devonte, 15, Hannah, 16, and Sierra, 12 — remain unaccounted for. Capt. Greg Van Patten, a spokesman for the Mendocino County Sheriff’s Office, said the conditions at the site of the crash have stymied rescue efforts. “The location where the crash occurred is very difficult to search. Tides are strong and unpredictable,” Van Patten told reporters Sunday. “The murkiness of the water makes it difficult for anything to be seen. We can’t even get divers in the water.” It remains unclear why the family left their home in Washington state — leaving behind many of their belongings, including a pet and some chickens — and drove more than 500 miles south to Mendocino County in California. Days earlier, child services officials had begun investigating the Harts for “alleged abuse or neglect.” The Washington Department of Social and Health Services said it tried to contact the Harts on March 23 after receiving a report of alleged abuse, but was unable to do so. The agency tried a second time on March 26, the day the crash was reported, and again the next day. “We have not made any findings in this investigation and we had no prior history with this family,” the agency said. “We are working with all involved law enforcement agencies on their respective investigations.” Neighbors have pointed to signs that the children might have been living troubled lives. Bruce DeKalb said Devonte regularly came to his home to ask for food and indicated that his parents weren’t feeding him. The teen also asked him and his wife to call Child Protective Services, DeKalb said. [ Family of 8 that’s feared dead after SUV plunged off cliff had troubled home life, neighbors say ] Last month, another sibling, Hannah, knocked on his front door at 1:30 a.m., DeKalb said. She was covered in weeds after jumping out of her family’s second-story window. DeKalb said the teenager, who was missing some front teeth and who he thought was only 7 years old, was “rattled to the bone.” In 2011 in Minnesota, where the Harts previously lived, Sarah Hart was convicted of misdemeanor domestic assault. Court records show that one of the couple’s daughters, who was then 6, showed up to school with bruises on her back and stomach. Hart told police she bent the girl over a bathtub and spanked her after losing her temper. The family later left Minnesota and moved to a suburb of Portland, Ore. There, Devonte, who is African American, was photographed sobbing in the arms of a white police officer in 2014, when people gathered to support civil rights protests in Ferguson, Mo. The protests were in reaction to a grand jury decision to not charge white police officer Darren Wilson in the fatal shooting of  Michael Brown, an 18-year-old African American. Authorities said the family then left Oregon and moved across the Columbia River to Woodland, Wash., to escape the intense scrutiny brought by the viral photo of Devonte. Those who were close to the Harts described them as inspiring and devoted parents who had been unfairly subjected to criticism and assumptions about their motives for adopting the children. Friends also said that the couple tried to keep their children insulated from death threats and hateful emails prompted by Devonte’s picture. Kevin Sullivan, Marwa Eltagouri and Maureen O’Hagan contributed to this article. Read more: A look at the lives of 13 siblings held captive in a house full of chains — and what comes next The story behind the viral ‘hug’ photo after Ferguson Sacramento sheriff’s vehicle hits woman during Stephon Clark protest and drives away, video shows