For the past 16 months, President Trump and his communications team have stressed that he would not be a “business as usual” president. Sean Spicer said that “business as usual is over” during the transition. Most commentators would agree. This raises an obvious question: Has presidenting outside the box yielded him anything beyond Kanye’s dragon energy? Trump supporters might point to the planned summit with Kim Jong Un. That’s possible, but let’s wait and see how that plays out before judging it. Recent events suggest that Trump’s idiosyncratic management style is getting him something: a disloyal staff and a contentious Congress. We saw this earlier in the week in the White House response to the political travails of No. 1 seed Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt. Bloomberg News’s Jennifer Dlouhy and Jennifer Jacobs reported that “White House officials are cautioning Republican lawmakers and other conservative allies to temper their defense of Scott Pruitt” even though Trump’s support has been unwavering. Yesterday’s daily briefing confirmed this distancing. The Daily Beast’s indefatigable Lachlan Markay and Asawin Suebsaeng offer more detail, reporting that Pruitt’s EPA staff rebuffed White House assistance for his forthcoming congressional testimony: Pruitt has earned President Trump’s trust through his persistent advocacy of a conservative energy and environmental agenda, including the rollback of major Obama-era regulations. But EPA officials suspect that that goodwill does not extend to most of the president’s staff, who have struggled to deal with cascading scandals involving high-level Trump administration officials, resulting in the resignations of two cabinet members so far. There has been a now months-long erosion of trust and cooperation between Pruitt’s EPA and the senior ranks of Trump’s West Wing … Early this month, White House Chief of Staff John Kelly conveyed to Pruitt in a phone call that, though he had the full public confidence of President Trump for now, the flow of damning news stories needed to stop. “[It] was not a friendly buck-up call at all,” one Trump administration official described the conversation. Trump is the president, but clearly he and his senior staff have not been on the same page with respect to Pruitt. The Daily Beast’s follow-up coverage suggests that Trump’s senior staff wants Pruitt to bomb in his testimony today because they are so sick of the scandals. This tension exacerbates a political problem for the White House that shows zero signs of going away. In this case, Trump’s not-business-as-usual style has created more political headaches for him. Trump being boxed in by his outside-the-box moves has also played out in Trump’s efforts to have Ronny L. Jackson be confirmed as his new secretary of Veterans Affairs. Josh Dawsey tweeted the basic problem yesterday: Senators were skeptical of Jackson’s ability to manage the second-largest department in the federal government. As more allegations about Jackson’s unprofessional behavior have come to light, the complete lack of vetting has become obvious. Both Politico and CNN have offered tick-tocks about how the White House got itself into this mess. This from Politico’s Burgess Everett, Eliana Johnson, and Elana Schor is jaw-dropping: President Donald Trump could have avoided the firestorm over Ronny Jackson’s nomination if he’d taken Johnny Isakson’s advice to begin with. In a private conversation with Trump last month, the Senate Veterans’ Affairs chairman mounted a strong defense of then-VA Secretary David Shulkin. But despite Isakson’s guidance, Shulkin was canned a few days later, and Jackson, the White House physician, was quickly nominated to take his place … Jackson’s trouble may also signal a new front in the war inside the White House. Aides who’ve come to realize they can’t control the president have taken to leaking negative information about advisers, Cabinet members and Cabinet nominees in hopes they can shape the president’s personnel decisions — or torpedo them entirely — through the news media. Media leaks are a fact of life for all administrations. For the White House staff to use them to influence the president because they cannot persuade him through normal channels is striking. It is yet further evidence that the president who prizes loyalty so highly cannot generate much of it from his staff. CNN’s Pamela Brown, Sarah Westwood and Phil Mattingly tell a similar story, except that it’s GOP senators who are fed up with Trump’s unusual business style: Republican lawmakers and aides have grown increasingly frustrated with the White House over the last several days — tied in part to the unconventional nomination of Dr. Ronny Jackson to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs and the lack of congressional consultation before it was made. “I understand the President wants his people and we want to be deferential as much as we can, but it would be nice to know some of the issues that come up after the fact, before the fact,” said John Thune of South Dakota, the Senate’s No. 3 Republican … The White House doctor is just the latest in a string of nominees — including Gina Haspel, whom Trump tapped to lead the CIA — facing resistance unexpected by the White House. Repeatedly, the Trump administration has failed to recognize potential pitfalls for their nominees or worked to ensure Republican lawmakers in charge on Capitol Hill are on board. Again, this is not how business is usually run in Washington. But by going outside the box, Trump has guaranteed greater friction with Congress. Little wonder that the Wall Street Journal reports that “an administration official described President Donald Trump as ‘bewildered’ by the response to Dr. Jackson’s nomination, while acknowledging that prior vetting of the nominee could have helped stave off problems.” That Sen. Jon Tester is taking the lead in pushing back on Jackson is also telling. Tester is a Democrat running for reelection in Montana, a state that went for Trump by 20 points. That he feels secure pushing back on Trump’s nominee tells you just how little Trump’s unusual style has yielded. To be fair to Trump, he did accomplish something this week: getting Rand Paul to roll over on Mike Pompeo’s confirmation to be secretary of state. That ain’t beanbag, but a president leaning on a member of his own party is not exactly outside the box. It’s as business as usual as one can get. And it was in the service of getting his secretary of state confirmed, which is usually a pro forma exercise. Perhaps Trump’s defenders can point to something he has accomplished that a conventional president could not have obtained. But the Washington Examiner — which has been somewhat sympathetic to Trump’s policy agenda — nonetheless has a scathing editorial about Trump’s inability to learn how to govern: Trump takes an overly casual approach to these things. He needs to be taught that there is no “Easy Button” in government. It’s anything but easy. He has the wrong impression because he doesn’t realize what’s required to do it well … Trump has a blind spot about governing that he needs to think about. When he remarked, “Nobody knew that health care could be so complicated,” he unwittingly revealed that he doesn’t know how much he doesn’t know. The only cure for such ignorance is to work hard to learn, and find people who know the ropes and whose advice he will trust. Otherwise, he’s going to keep running into problems like this. Trump must take the task of governing more seriously. If he does, he will get much better results, and he will be remembered more fondly for what he accomplishes. The problem is, that sounds a lot like business as usual. Which is not how Trump wants to do things. And since he is in the “no” phase of his presidency, he will continue his disruptive brand of governance. Mostly, however, Trump has disrupted himself.