Heading into Game 3 of the first round of the NBA playoffs, Washington Wizards Coach Scott Brooks met with Bradley Beal and John Wall to discuss how to get Beal more involved and engaged against the Toronto Raptors, who had won the first two games. Brooks, according to Beal, even went so far as to apologize for contributing to some of the off-guard’s shooting woes, underscored by a Game 2 performance in which Beal went 3 for 11 with nine points and a plus/minus rating of negative-34. By halftime of Friday night’s 122-103 victory at Capital One Arena, Beal — to the delight of a packed house — had reclaimed the smooth shooting stroke that elevated him to 13th in the NBA in scoring and resulted in the sixth-year guard’s first all-star selection. [Wizards rediscover Deathrow D.C. persona, brush off Raptors to win Game 3, 122-103] Beal scored 21 of his 28 points in the first half, helping stake the Wizards to a 69-61 lead they never relinquished. He finished 10 for 19 from the field, including 4 for 9 from three-point range, and got to rim with a controlled hostility that had been lacking in the first two games in Toronto. “Brad came in and played well,” Brooks said. “We needed him. I took a lot of the blame talking to him that I needed to get him involved more, and we did that early in the game, and it paid off.” So high were the stakes as well as Beal’s emotions in Game 3 that he was assessed a dead-ball technical foul for a run-in with Raptors center Jonas Valanciunas midway through the third quarter. Moments later, Wall and Toronto forward Serge Ibaka had to be separated after exchanging words near the foul line in front of the Washington bench. Beal, who was plus-19 on Friday, had been involved in another physical sequence not uncommon to playoff basketball when he drove for a fast-break layup following a turnover. But as Beal extended himself while attempting to score, Raptors guard Kyle Lowry swooped in and caught Beal on top of his head with his right arm. Clearly irked by the incident, Beal rose quickly after landing beyond the baseline near a row of cameramen and photographers, pleading his case to officials, who reviewed the play and assessed Lowry a flagrant-one. Beal made 1 of 2 foul shots to start a 6-0 burst that pulled Washington ahead 77-66. [Wizards will ‘Rep the District’ with alternate uniforms for every home playoff game] “For the most part, I just wanted to be aggressive and get shots I want versus what they’re going to force me to take,” Beal said in the postgame news conference at a table with Wall (28 points, 14 assists). “This dude next to me, man, he creates and facilitates for the whole team and gets everybody easy shots. It’s great to see a few go in. It’s always a confidence booster. “We’re at home, and we needed the win. That was my main mind-set: Do whatever it takes to win.” The margin swelled to 22 points late in the third quarter thanks to a 16-4 barrage that included four points from Beal, the last of those coming on a pair of free throws for a 96-76 lead with 1:49 to go. Beal wound up 4 for 5 from the free throw line after going 2 for 3 combined in the first two games. “Brad came out and was looking to go toward the basket and not just letting them hold him and going along with it,” Brooks said. “He didn’t want to dance with his opponent. He wanted to get away from them, and I thought that was a critical part of his success.” It was clear from the outset that Beal was going to be featured in Game 3. He opened the scoring for Washington with a turnaround jumper and added another jumper several possessions later. Beal scored 12 points in the first quarter alone. He also was attentive defensively with three steals and in getting his teammates involved (four assists). In one stretch, he collected a steal and had a clear path to the basket before slipping near the foul line. But he gathered himself while on the floor in time to deliver a pass to Kelly Oubre Jr., who dunked one-handed to bring the late-arriving crowd to its feet. Beal closed out the first quarter with two three-pointers in the final 90 seconds, pumping his fist, screaming in celebration and encouraging Wizards fans to join in on the fun. “I think it was making sure we were both aggressive at all times, making sure we were holding teammates accountable and leading the charge on both ends of the floor and bringing it,” Beal said of his synergy with Wall. “We have a tough assignment. This is a tough team that we’re playing. Each and every guy, we’ve all got to step up and play our part, but we know it starts with us two.”