ATLANTA — When Bryce Harper grounded to first base in the ninth inning Monday night, the play broke a streak of eight plate appearances in which he had either walked or homered. For most players, streaks like that qualify as unthinkable. For Harper, this one signaled a former MVP beginning the season firmly in the zone. “For me, when he stays in the middle of the field, he’s dangerous,” Nationals Manager Dave Martinez said. “I know he and [hitting coach] Kevin Long talk about that a lot. He’s good. He’s one of the best. I’m glad I get to watch him play every day, and hopefully he continues to do what he’s doing.” He seems likely to do so Tuesday against Braves starter Julio Teheran. Harper has faced Teheran more than any major league pitcher, taking 45 plate appearances against since 2013. He is 17 for 37 (.459) with seven walks and seven homers — and more of both than of strikeouts. [ Nats spark plug Adam Eaton would have more fun hitting lower in the order ] Martinez considered moving Harper to second in the lineup for the occasion, which seems like the perfect storm for a Harper explosion. In seven games at SunTrust Park, he is hitting .458 with a 1.581 OPS. The only other places he hits better are Angel Stadium and Safeco Field, where he has played four games combined. The first version of the lineup posted in the clubhouse had Harper second and Rendon third. That was a typo. Martinez switched it back. “That was a misprint. That’s something I thought about. I kind of construct lineups a few days in advance. It’s something that I was thinking about looking at and I must have said it,” Martinez said. “When I looked at it, I said, ‘Oh no. I don’t want to do that.’ ” Instead, Martinez decided to stick with what has been working, while also adding another left-handed bat to the lineup by replacing Michael A. Taylor with Brian Goodwin and Pedro Severino with Miguel Montero. WASHINGTON NATIONALS (4-0) Adam Eaton LF Anthony Rendon 3B Bryce Harper RF Ryan Zimmerman 1B Howie Kendrick 2B Trea Turner SS Brian Goodwin CF Miguel Montero C A.J. Cole P ATLANTA BRAVES (2-2) Ender Inciarte CF Ozzie Albies 2B Freddie Freeman 1B Nick Markakis RF Preston Tucker LF Dansby Swanson SS Ryan Flaherty 3B Chris Stewart C Julio Teheran P Read more Nationals coverage: A Reds fan called Bryce Harper ‘overrated.’ The slugger answered with another homer. Adam Eaton’s ‘edge’ could make this the most potent Nats lineup ever sports  washington-nationals Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. Daniel Murphy continues to make progress, but his return remains a ways off Monday’s result: Nats improve to 4-0 as Bryce Harper blasts his third home run As Adam Eaton receives NL player of the week award, concerns about his workload surface