The Washington Nationals, a team built to win 4-3 games, lost one at home Saturday to the Arizona Diamondbacks. They had a lead, gave it back, took another, and couldn’t hold it. They handed a one-run lead to the back of their bullpen, the back of the bullpen that was supposed to combat demoralization like this. Instead, it added to it. Their manager mixed up a pitching change. The man he brought into the game walked home the winning run. The Nationals are 1-8 in one-run games and five games under .500. They will end Saturday at least six games back of New York in the National League East, perhaps more depending on the outcome of the Mets’ game Saturday night. They have five months left in this season, but they have left themselves a mountain to ascend, and not shown much stamina for climbing. [Saturday’s box score: Diamondbacks 4, Nationals 3 (10 innings)] The most crushing moment of Saturday’s game — and one of the more crushing in a season that has provided plenty of competition — came in the top of the 10th, when Manager Dave Martinez mishandled a pitching change. Martinez thought the Diamondbacks had announced a right-handed pinch hitter, so he walked out to the mound and took the ball from left-handed Sammy Solis, with the intention of giving it to his right-handed reliever Austin Adams. The Diamondbacks had not announced a right-handed pinch hitter at all, so Adams faced left-handed hitting Jarrod Dyson and walked him to load the bases. He eventually walked right-handed A.J. Pollock, too — the go-ahead run in one of the more devastating losses a team can suffer in April. This team brought it on itself. Saturday’s game could have been a win against the charging Diamondbacks and their impressive left-hander Patrick Corbin. Instead, it became the Nationals’ 16th loss in their past 23 games. Martinez tried to spark something by changing his lineup Saturday, hoping to help Bryce Harper and Ryan Zimmerman, who have wrestled for consistency over the past two weeks. Harper hasn’t gotten many pitches to hit because Zimmerman has not been hitting well enough to protect him. Zimmerman hasn’t gotten many pitches to hit because he was not hitting the ones he was given — and no one behind him had a track record good enough to foster intimidation. Given Zimmerman’s struggles and Harper’s trouble, Martinez moved Zimmerman to the second spot and Howie Kendrick behind Harper in the cleanup spot. He figured hitting second would alleviate some pressure on Zimmerman. For one day at least, he seemed to figure right. With Trea Turner on second in the bottom of the third, Zimmerman hit a towering home run to deep right center to give the Nationals a two-run lead. It was his sixth hit with runners in scoring position this season. Without Anthony Rendon and Adam Eaton and Daniel Murphy, the Nationals need him to provide as many as he can. Even with Zimmerman struggling, the Nationals have not lacked leads as they’ve struggled in recent weeks. They’ve lacked the ability to hold them. Jeremy Hellickson had thrown a remarkably low 24 pitches through three innings and faced the minimum by the time leadoff man David Peralta came up to start the fourth. But Peralta, the first batter Hellickson faced with a lead, became the first Diamondback to score when he hit a solo home run. He homered again in the top of the sixth to tie the game. A day after Stephen Strasburg surrendered his first lead within three batters and his second within two, Hellickson gave runs back immediately, too. Martinez did not want to take chances with Hellickson, who had not yet reached 60 pitches by the time Peralta tied the game. He pulled him with one out and 57 pitches in the sixth, ending his day after 5⅓ innings in which he matched Corbin by allowing two runs on five hits and threw 14 balls. Kendrick, who has been willing this Nationals offense to stay in games through Zimmerman’s struggles and Harper’s lull and a barrage of injuries, hit a home run to left field to put the Nationals ahead in the sixth. They pushed Corbin from the game an inning later, and did so with a lead. Corbin had not lost a decision this season. He still hadn’t after Saturday, as Ryan Madson — normally reliable, but not sharp Saturday — surrendered the lead in the top of the eighth. Solis could not get them through the 10th, then the botched pitching change handed Adams a two-on, one-out jam. He could not escape it. These Nationals are nearing their worst record in half a decade, and the blame game yields no simple solutions. Nothing is going right.