The sight was odd, jarring even. Gregg Popovich was absent Thursday from the San Antonio Spurs’ sideline he has roamed for 22 years in Game 3 of the team’s playoff series against Golden State, missing a second consecutive playoff game after the unexpected death of his wife. “It was strange looking down the sideline,” Warriors Coach Steve Kerr admitted before Game 3, “and not seeing Pop.” Things will not return to normal in Game 4 on Sunday, with Popovich yielding his seat for another game to Ettore Messina with the Spurs facing elimination. “It was a sad time, as you can understand,” Messina said Thursday (via the Express-News). “I think everybody did a fantastic job in really trying to support each other and face a moment like it should be faced, with the support of friends.” [For the Spurs, the most important game left this season is the Kawhi Leonard standoff] Messina was a legendary coach in Europe, but Popovich’s absence was acutely felt even though much of the game plan had been formulated before Erin Popovich died Wednesday at the age of 67. “You go through a season with anybody for 82 games, you see them every day,” Danny Green said. “You’re used to them being there. Especially with his presence. When that’s not there, it’s a big difference.” [‘It’s going to be very hard to play basketball today’: NBA mourns death of Gregg Popovich’s wife] A loss will send the Spurs to an uncertain summer, one in which Popovich will be confronted with a number of on-the-court issues after a season of turmoil involving Kawhi Leonard’s future. But first, there’s an important Game 4. “You know how important Pop is, not only for us players, but the whole organization and the whole NBA,” Manu Ginóbili said Saturday (via the Associated Press). “We probably are in a better situation emotionally and hopefully it fuels us. But it’s hard to tell how a team is going to react.” Read more from The Post: Spurs turn to Ettore Messina, ‘one of the best coaches in the world’ NBA playoffs: Updates and analysis from The Post’s Tim Bontemps Seth Jones is following his father’s path — on ice, not the basketball court For the Spurs, the most important game left this season is the Kawhi Leonard standoff College tennis player apologizes for ‘grossly inappropriate’ jokes that caused campus furor