BALTIMORE — Kevin Gausman’s first pitch of the season was a 91-mph, get-me-over fastball to Minnesota Twins leadoff hitter Brian Dozier that ended up getting over the left field fence. After another promising spring that followed another promising end to the prior season, Gausman exhibited in his regular season debut all the red flags that undermine his immense talent. Featuring the slowest average fastball he has had as a major leaguer, Gausman allowed three home runs in the Baltimore Orioles’ 7-0 loss to the Minnesota Twins before an announced Easter crowd of 17,212. Gausman, who allowed six runs in four innings, was blunt about his performance Sunday. “I felt good but, you know, for whatever reason, it just wasn’t there today,” he said. “I felt like I got better as the game went on, really, with everything. But I will say early on, I just didn’t really feel as locked in as I have been in spring.” [Saturday’s game: Orioles are helpless and nearly hitless in 6-2 loss to Twins] According to MLB’s Statcast data, Gausman’s fastball averaged 92.3 mph. Last year, his lowest game average was 94.2 mph, according to FanGraphs. His slowest fastballs were measured at 89.3 mph — the slowest he has thrown in the majors, according to BaseballSavant.com. Manager Buck Showalter and Gausman said there was nothing physical that could have contributed to it, and they noted velocity isn’t everything. But the results were fitting for what Gausman was working with Sunday. “You look back at the command, where the balls were, where he was trying to throw them,” Showalter said. “The first ball of the game was supposed to be down and away; it was middle-middle — actually a little bit down, where [Dozier] really hits the ball well. Kevin has been really effective last year at that velocity. That’s more about location, command of the pitches — just wasn’t very crisp.” After Dozier’s leadoff home run, Gausman walked first baseman Joe Mauer, who advanced on a bunt single by left fielder Eddie Rosario and scored on a bloop double to left by shortstop Eduardo Escobar. Rosario scored on a wild pitch — the first of two for Gausman on the day — and center fielder Byron Buxton singled to score Escobar shortly after. Before the Orioles took a hack, a fruitless task Sunday, they trailed 4-0. Gausman had a three-batter second inning, but third baseman Miguel Sano hit a 92-mph fastball over the scoreboard in right field to open the third. Three batters later, Escobar sat back on a split-fingered fastball and drove it to center field for another home run. The fourth inning was better — Gausman got swinging strikes with his splitter and slider, both of which were good pitches Sunday — but he left a fastball over the plate that Mauer doubled into the left field corner. “It’s one game against a really good team,” Showalter said. “Kevin’s a good pitcher. He showed that last year and the year before.” Rule 5 draft pick Pedro Araujo allowed a home run in 1⅔ innings of relief before Richard Bleier, Brad Brach and Mychal Givens set the Twins down quickly to cover the rest of the game. Minnesota starter Jose Berrios allowed just three hits as he went the distance, striking out six. — Baltimore Sun