Connie Lawn, a freelance broadcast journalist and 40-year member of the White House press corps, died April 2 at her home in Falls Church, Va. She was 73. The cause was a form of Parkinson’s disease, said her husband, physician Charles A. Sneiderman. Ms. Lawn founded her own one-woman news bureau, Audio Visual News, which had radio clients all over the world, including networks in Britain, Canada, Australia, Israel and South Africa. She was especially popular in New Zealand and, according to a 2016 Washington Post profile, her persistent questions at White House briefings about tariffs on New Zealand’s dairy exports led her to be called the “Butter Queen.” Sometimes White House press staffers simply said “nothing on New Zealand today, Connie,” when they saw her at a briefing. Ms. Lawn came to Washington in 1967 for a staff job in a congressional office, then moved into broadcasting. The next year, she quit journalism briefly to work for Sen. Eugene McCarthy (Minn.) during his maverick campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. By June 1968, she was back on the air covering Robert F. Kennedy in Los Angeles, where she conducted one of the last broadcast interviews with the New York senator in his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. She was at the Ambassador Hotel when he was fatally wounded by an assassin’s bullets. She covered the attempted 1981 assassination of President Ronald Reagan in Washington and the next year she was in the Middle East during the Israeli invasion of Lebanon. Constance Ellen Lawn was born in Long Branch, N.J., on May 14, 1944. Her father was a lawyer and businessman, and her mother was a chemist. She graduated from Boston’s Simmons College in 1966 and did postgraduate study in Paris at the Institute of Political Studies, better known as Sciences Po. Her early journalism career was not without its bloopers. At a TV station in New Bedford, Mass., managers asked her to wear a long red wig and a revealing dress. They made her weather girl despite not having any experience in meteorology, she told The Post. Broadcasting from a windowless room at the studio one summer, she remarked that it would be a good day to go to a Cape Cod beach — not realizing it was pouring rain outside. Her first marriage, to Stephen Rappaport, ended in divorce. In 2000, she married Sneiderman, who survives, along with two sons from her first marriage, Daniel Rappaport of Annandale, Va., and David Rappaport of Richmond; and two grandchildren. In her 2014 memoir, “You Wake Me Each Morning,” Ms. Lawn discussed rampant sexual harassment throughout her career from her journalistic supervisors and from public figures she tried to interview. In recent years, she wrote a column for the HuffPost, which included comments on world events and personal essays. As she grew more disabled by Parkinson’s, she was unable to attend regular press briefings, which made her feel isolated from the White House press corps, which, she told The Washington Post, “is my family.” Read more  Washington Post obituaries  Herbert Kaiser, who helped train black medical professionals in South Africa, dies at 94 Anna Chennault, secret Nixon envoy and Washington figure of ‘glamour and mystery,’ dies at 94 Frances L. Lloyd, scientist who made key contributions to voltage standards, dies at 94