Just three actors are credited in the cast list for the Hub Theatre’s “The Pavilion.” But at times during this engrossing production, you swear you were watching a crowd. Craig Wright’s play is set at a high school reunion, and the Hub production seems to teem with oddball erstwhile classmates. Here’s the chatty dolt who works at a for-profit suicide prevention hotline. There’s the bitter wife who dreams of dissing her husband on a vanity license plate. Here’s the fervent believer in reincarnation, eager to share his vivid memories of the Roman Empire. These quirky characters — and many others — spring to life courtesy of performer Nora Achrati, who expertly alters her inflections, vocal pitch and body language so as to make each personality distinct. A trim, alert figure in black-framed glasses and sporty androgynous clothes, Achrati also depicts the play’s Narrator, who often stands outside the action, sometimes calling cues, stage-manager style, and at other times contextualizing human affairs from a history-spanning, metaphysical perspective. The Narrator’s commentary often has the heady lyricism of a prose poem (“From the fire-latticed floor of the earth, sweet shoots of green spring up through the cooling webs . . .”), and Achrati delivers the speeches — which dwell on the nature of time — in just the right rapt yet steady tone. The commentary lends extra poignancy to the play’s central story: the shattered romance between onetime sweethearts Kari (Helen R. Murray) and Peter (Matt Bassett). Twenty years after dumping the pregnant Kari, Peter has arrived at the reunion desperate to win her back. But she is still devastated by the breakup. And the reunion’s guilty pleasures — booze, dance tunes, gossip, nostalgia — won’t stanch her resentment. Or will they? The Hub got off to a terrific start when it mounted “The Pavilion” as its inaugural offering, in 2009. This new version, directed by Kelsey Mesa, is not quite equal to the previous iteration, but it comes close. Sometimes making fine use of understatement, Murray (Hub’s outgoing artistic director) and Bassett create persuasive portraits of their troubled characters. And the less-is-more set, with its lanterns and party lights, plus a stretch of pavilion-railing that the actors frequently reposition, often suggests that we are seeing different corners of the reunion from different angles. (Mesa and Murray created the scenic design.) It seems fitting that Hub should revisit a play that’s partly about revisiting the past. Time only moves in one direction, the Narrator might point out; but in theater, there’s often scope for a second take.  The Pavilion, by Craig Wright. Directed by Kelsey Mesa; lighting design, Johnathan D. Alexander; costumes, Jen Gillette; sound, Evan Cook. 90 minutes. Tickets: $22-$32. Through April 15 at the John Swayze Theatre, New School of Northern Virginia, 9431 Silver King Ct., Fairfax. thehubtheatre.org. 