House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) announced Wednesday that he will not seek reelection this year, ending a nearly 20-year tenure in Congress and adding further uncertainty about whether embattled Republicans can maintain control of the House. Ryan said at a news conference that he sees a “very bright future” for his party and said his decision was driven by a desire to spend more time with his family. “I have accomplished much of what I came here to do, and my kids aren’t getting any younger,” Ryan said. “What I realized is if I serve for one more term my kids will only have known me as a weekend dad.” Ryan, who plans to serve out his term and retire in January, said the possibility of Democrats taking over the House factored into his decision “none whatsoever.” He emphasized that he had taken the job of speaker reluctantly. The decision comes ahead of midterm elections that were already looking treacherous for Republicans, who risk losing control of the House. [GOP increasingly fears loss of House, focuses on saving Senate majority ] The party has seen a large number of retirements, and Ryan’s exit is certain to sap morale as Republicans seek to contain a surge in enthusiasm from Democrats, whose fortunes have been buoyed by the unpopularity of President Trump. Shortly before Ryan was scheduled to hold a news conference announcing his retirement, Trump tweeted that Ryan is “a truly good man and while he will not be seeking reelection, he will leave a legacy of achievement that nobody can question.” Applause could be heard outside Ryan’s office shortly before 9 a.m. as he was meeting with staff. He shared the news with GOP lawmakers in a closed-door meeting afterward. “He is not running for reelection,” said Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), chairman of the House Freedom Caucus. “He has had an outstanding legacy as a conservative policy thought leader and will be successful in any future endeavor.” The two Republicans most likely to replace Ryan are House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (Calif.) and House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (La.). Both issued statements Wednesday praising Ryan and pledging to work closely with him through the remainder of his tenure. Ryan, 48, was the vice presidential nominee in 2012 on the GOP ticket with Mitt Romney. After much persuasion, Ryan was elected by his colleagues in 2015 to replace John A. Boehner as speaker after Boehner’s retirement. Ryan had long championed overhauling the tax code, a goal accomplished with the passage last year of the sweeping GOP tax bill. “That’s something I’ve been working on my entire adult life,” Ryan said at his news conference. He cited tax reform and rebuilding the military as his two biggest achievements and said he wants to accomplish more before stepping down. “I want be clear here,” Ryan said. “I’m not done yet. I’m going to run through the tape.” [Analysis: Why Paul Ryan’s retirement only makes sense ] Ryan has represented Wisconsin’s 1st Congressional District since 1999. He was previously chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and before that chairman of the House Budget Committee. As speaker, he’s proved to be a major fundraiser for his colleagues. A spokesman for Ryan’s political action committee said he remains committed to helping colleagues in this year’s elections and could actually have more time now to devote to that task. The news of Ryan’s retirement was first reported by Axios. If he sticks to this plan, Ryan will become the first speaker since Democrat Tip O’Neill in 1986 to announce his retirement so far in advance. Some of Ryan’s close friends believe this may be a mistake on his part. Just two weeks ago, Eric Cantor, the former House majority leader and longtime Ryan friend, predicted that the speaker would serve out his term, run for reelection and then decide his future in November. To do otherwise, Cantor told The Washington Post in an interview, would be to “abdicate” power and send a signal that Republicans had no chance of keeping the majority. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) defended the timing of Ryan’s announcement, saying, “It’s an honest timing of an honest man.” “He didn’t want to imply that he was running for reelection when he knew he wouldn’t be staying,” Issa said. “And I think his honesty should be refreshing for everybody.” Ryan told reporters that he had considered running for reelection and then resigning afterward. But he said he couldn’t do that. “My conscience could not handle going out that way,” Ryan said, citing a need to be honest with his constituents. “To allow them to vote to reelect me knowing I wasn’t going to stay simply would not be honest.” Ryan argued that his decision would not affect the outcome of other House races. “I really don’t think a person’s race for Congress is going to hinge on whether Paul Ryan is speaker or not,” he said. “So I really don’t think it affects it. Look, if we do our jobs, which we are, we’re going to be fine as a majority.” Ryan’s advertised exit is likely to set off a prolonged period of jockeying to succeed him. Rep. Peter King (R-N.Y.) said that he is hopeful that the party waits to hold leadership elections until after the election. “Depending on how the elections come out, we can see what our strengths are, what our weaknesses are, and that can determine who should be the speaker,” King said. “There will be some maneuvering behind the scenes, but we don’t need a public campaign right now.” In a floor speech Wednesday morning, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) called Ryan a “transformational conservative leader” whose legacy included last year’s overhaul of the tax code and significant increases in defense spending. “What’s more, Paul has paired that ambitious agenda with infectious good cheer and an unflagging commitment to serve all Americans,” McConnell said, calling Ryan “a happy warrior.” In a statement, Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) called Ryan “a good man who is always true to his word.” “Even though we disagreed on most issues, in the areas where we could work together I always found him to be smart, thoughtful and straightforward,” Schumer said. Schumer urged Ryan, in his remaining time, “to break free from the hard-right factions of his caucus that have kept Congress from getting real things done.” Other Democrats were quick to pounce on Ryan’s decision Wednesday. powerpost       false endOfArticle true   Please provide a valid email address. “Speaker Ryan sees what is coming in November and is calling it quits rather than standing behind a House Republican agenda to increase health-care costs for middle class families while slashing Social Security and Medicare to pay for his handouts to the richest and largest corporations,” said Tyler Law, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Seung Min Kim, Paul Kane, David Weigel and Erica Werner contributed to this report. Read more at PowerPost