Since he entered office last year, there has been persistent talk of President Trump visiting Britain. The United Kingdom is one of the United States’ strongest allies, and a trip to London is often on the schedule for any president. Like many of his predecessors, Trump has familial ties to Britain: His mother, Mary Anne MacLeod Trump, was born in Scotland’s Outer Hebrides. But as his presidency approaches its 16th month, Trump still has not visited Britain. A Trump visit to Britain has never been officially scheduled. The problem may be a widespread animosity to Trump within the country. Despite his recently saying he was “very popular” in Britain, 67 percent of the British populace thinks he has been a “poor” or “terrible” president, according to one poll. The dislike crescendoed last fall, after Trump retweeted a British fringe group’s anti-Muslim videos, with members of Parliament deriding him. Meanwhile, Britain has had its own internal challenges over the past year as it wrestles with the complexities of the planned exit from the European Union, and a state visit by the “America First” president would not necessarily be a welcome distraction. British Prime Minister Theresa May, who called a snap election last year with hopes of consolidating her power, has been widely criticized for pursuing a close relationship with Trump, with some opposing members of Parliament accusing her of “groveling” before the president. But rumors are swirling again about a possible Trump visit to Britain, so it’s worth looking at the timeline of pledges, promises and controversy surrounding the issue. Jan. 20, 2017 On Trump’s inauguration, May congratulates the U.S. leader and says they are both committed to advancing the “special relationship between the two nations.” “I look forward to discussing these issues and more when we meet in Washington,” May says. Jan. 27, 2017 The British prime minister becomes the first foreign leader to meet with Trump since he takes office. The pair present a united front in public appearances, but the British government is said to be surprised afterward by the overwhelmingly negative press coverage of the trip. During a news conference in Washington, May tells reporters that Trump accepted an invitation from Queen Elizabeth II for a state visit later that year. Jan. 30, 2017 A petition calling on May to cancel the state visit reaches more than 1 million signatures in just a few days. Feb. 7, 2017 The speaker of Britain’s House of Commons, John Bercow, tells lawmakers that he is “strongly opposed” to Trump’s addressing Parliament, an honor sometimes extended to visiting heads of state. Bercow cites concerns about “racism” and “sexism” in justifying his decision. Feb. 20, 2017 In response to the petition against Trump’s visit, which acquires more than 1.8 million signatures, British politicians debate whether the invitation to Trump for a state visit should be rescinded. Many argue that the visit should be scrapped altogether, or watered down to an official visit. Although the debate carries no legal force, and some lawmakers still support the visit, it is embarrassing for the prime minister. June 12, 2017 The Guardian reports that Trump told May in a phone call that he did not want to proceed with a visit to Britain until the British public supports his coming. The report comes after Trump attracted widespread criticism in Britain for comments about London Mayor Sadiq Khan in the aftermath of a terrorist attack in the British capital. Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of Britain’s main opposition party, Labour, tweets his support for the cancellation of the state visit. July 8, 2017 Trump meets with May at the Group of 20 Summit in Hamburg. “I will be going to London,” Trump says when asked by reporters in the room if he still plans to visit London. When pressed on timing, Trump says he will “work that out.” Nov. 30, 2017 After Trump retweets anti-Muslim messages from a far-right activist in Britain, he faces more criticism from the British public. May herself blasts Trump for posting the inflammatory videos, in turn prompting an angry response from Trump: The Telegraph newspaper quotes a “government source” as saying that the trip has been “kicked into the grass as long as it can get.” Dec. 3, 2017 The Sunday Times of London reports that a Trump visit to London is scheduled for February so he can attend the opening of a new U.S. Embassy. The trip is to be a shorter and less formal “working visit” rather than a state visit. The next day, anti-Trump groups say that they are hoping to organize the largest protests in British history when the president visits. Jan. 12, 2018 Trump says he is canceling the visit to London in February, justifying the move on Twitter by saying he believes the real estate deal for the new U.S. Embassy was bad. Former U.S. ambassadors to Britain contradict him, saying that the deal (which was begun under President George W. Bush) was necessary because of safety concerns. Jan. 25, 2018 Trump meets May during the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. The president denies reports of controversy between the two nations or the two leaders, telling May, “We love your country.” A “senior UK government source” tells the Guardian that a trip is now expected to take place in the latter half of 2018. It would be a working visit, rather than a state visit, which would still take place at some point in the future. April 20, 2018 world  worldviews Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Today's WorldView newsletter What's most important from where the world meets Washington Please provide a valid email address. Citing a British government source, the Daily Mail reports that a Trump visit has been penciled in for mid-July, with July 14 the favored date. Although it would not be a state visit, the newspaper reports, Trump could probably meet the queen or other members of the royal family, in addition to May. More on WorldViews ‘As usual, he’s dead wrong’: Former U.S. ambassadors explain London Embassy move after Trump criticism