THE RADICAL KING By Martin Luther King, Cornel West, ed. Audible Studios. Unabridged, 11-1/4 hours This April marks the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., the towering figure in the struggle for civil rights, champion of the poor and outspoken opponent of war. Collected and introduced by Cornel West, these 23 sermons, speeches and essays are delivered by 11 well-known actors, including Leslie Odom Jr., LeVar Burton and Danny Glover. King, as West says, believed “justice was what love looked like in public.” But the selections, which deeply question the country’s racial, economic and international arrangements, also show why the FBI called King “the most dangerous man in America.” Here is King’s blistering denunciation of the war in Vietnam, read by Robin Miles and “The Other America” read by Wanda Sykes. Bahni Turpin delivers King’s final and tragically prescient speech, “I’ve Been to the Mountaintop,” given the day before he was killed. It is a little strange to hear different voices rendering the words that we associate so closely with King’s stirring, charismatic voice, but they are part of the literature of resistance, and their relevance today is brought to the fore by being delivered by contemporary voices, including those of women. THE POEMS OF T.S. ELIOT By T.S. Eliot Faber & Faber. Unabridged, 3-¾ hours April, T.S. Eliot’s “cruelest month,” brings a recording of the poet’s work read by Jeremy Irons, with contributions from Eileen Atkins in “The Waste Land.” I cannot think of a better way to approach that notoriously difficult poem than by putting oneself in the company of these two voices. Irons’s resonant woodwind tones are spellbinding, his expression of emotion and mood superbly mobile. He is forlorn, desperate, crabby, weary and befuddled, connecting “nothing with nothing.” Atkins, who plays Queen Mary on the series “The Crown,” brings a range of styles from austere, blue-stockinged severity to brassy Cockney garrulousness, the latter in the verses devoted to women in a pub discussing Lil’s bad teeth: “You have them all out, Lil, and get a nice set,/ He said, I swear, I can’t bear to look at you.” The production, first broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in four parts, also includes “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock,” “Four Quartets” and — for those of us with a taste for whimsy — “Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.” It is a simple and marvelous truth that the sense of the more obscure verses begins to reveal itself almost magically through repeated listening. Indeed, this recording could serve well as the starting point for a book group’s inquiry into Eliot’s poetry and his understanding of a desiccated, exhausted culture bereft of meaning.  THE EUSTACE DIAMONDS By Anthony Trollope Naxos AudioBooks. Unabridged. 29-½ hours In a field overrun with virtuous, sappy females, Lizzie Eustace stands out in Victorian literature for her sterling bad qualities: avarice, mendacity and seductive witchery. Only Becky Sharp can match her for simple, unadorned deviousness. Lizzie is the dark star of “The Eustace Diamonds,” glittering rival to the meek, faithful Lucy Morris. Though the novel is part of the Palliser series, it stands alone, and the familiar Palliser characters play only bit parts. The stage belongs to Lizzie and her doomed efforts to hang on to the £10,000 diamond necklace that was not exactly given to her by her late husband. She is also intent on marrying dreary Lord Fawn or, maybe, as the mood suits her, the fly-by-night Lord George de Bruce Carruthers or Frank Greystock, who is engaged to Lucy. There are already three decent unabridged recordings of this novel, but David Shaw-Parker’s rendition is a true masterpiece of narration. His unhurried delivery, impeccable pacing and rendition of the decorous rhythm of Victorian speech result in a recording that is more than three hours longer than the others. Beyond that, he unobtrusively conveys the personality of the various characters, including the manipulative Lizzie, irresolute Frank, ponderous Fawn, patient Lucy and, most gloriously, a fractious Scot, speaker of high-Caledonian argot.  Katherine Powers reviews audiobooks every month for The Washington Post.  