The Pittsburgh Penguins’ locker room fumed quietly in the minutes after their 4-1 loss to the Washington Capitals in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference semifinals. The only noises were tape being crumpled into balls and skates being thrown into bags, until it was finally time for a few players to give their side of what happened in this bizarre contest at Capital One Arena. Goaltender Matt Murray sat and told reporters he was interfered with before a Washington goal in the first period. Sidney Crosby stood in another corner and declared that the NHL likely would review a high hit by Capitals forward Tom Wilson that knocked out teammate Brian Dumoulin. And next to Crosby was Patric Hornqvist, the central character in the most controversial play of the night. [Brian Connolly and the Capitals even things up with the Penguins] Hornqvist appeared to wedge a puck underneath Washington goalkeeper Braden Holtby for a goal midway through the third period that would have pulled the Penguins within 3-2, but officials determined there was no definitive replay that showed the puck completely crossing the line. It was a fitting and pivotal call that left Pittsburgh miffed by the officiating Sunday afternoon. “They said the puck wasn’t in the net,” Hornqvist said. “The view I saw in between the benches was not great, but my view from up top, on the ice there, was that it was in. But what can you do?” All Pittsburgh could do in the immediate aftermath was pack its bags as quickly as possible and hit the road home to begin preparing for Game 3 on Tuesday night. The Penguins have plenty to look forward to; not only will they have home-ice advantage after stealing Game 1 with a third period flurry Thursday night, they also potentially will return star center Evgeni Malkin to the fold after he missed the first two games of the series with a lower-body injury. Yet the Penguins did not go quietly Sunday night, with questions about Hornqvist’s no-goal at the forefront. [Is Tom Wilson facing a suspension for his hit on Brian Dumoulin?] “My view was that it’s 100 percent a goal. When you blow it up, you can see the white. It’s behind the post. Whether you use deductive reasoning or you can see the white, whatever it may be, that’s how we saw it,” Pittsburgh Coach Mike Sullivan said. “So we respectfully disagree with the league and their ruling, but that’s not anything we can control.” Said Crosby, who had created the chance with a wraparound at the net: “I understand what they’re saying. They don’t have a clear view of the puck over the line, but you can clearly see that the puck is on its edge behind the post. It’s not possible for it to touch the line. I don’t know the angles that they have, but the one I saw, it looked pretty clear that it had to be a goal.” The Penguins had their opportunities to make Game 2 even more interesting after a slow start and outplayed Washington for long stretches in the second and third periods. There were plenty of shortcomings for the two-time defending champions. They were outshot 20-10 in the first period. Murray was beaten on his glove side three times as the Capitals built a 3-0 lead. Crosby took a bad penalty that led to a goal. His sidekick, Jake Guentzel, who entered the night with seven goals in seven postseason games, was quiet and had just two shots. [Barry Svrluga: A bit of luck — and Braden Holtby — help the Caps tie the series] Yet the locker room seemed more perplexed by the calls they didn’t get Sunday. That included on a power-play goal by Jakub Vrana in the first period, which occurred a few seconds after Washington forward Brett Connolly had taken a swipe at Murray in the crease. Officials reviewed for potential interference but ultimately awarded the goal. “I was pretty disappointed. As a goalie, just want to be able to do your job,” Murray said. “When something like that happens and you can’t do it, you just want to see the rule be upheld.” Sullivan didn’t address that call during a terse news conference that lasted less than four minutes, but he did weigh in on the Hornqvist’s non-goal before and the hit by Wilson that sent Dumoulin out of the game in the second period. A reporter asked whether he had an opinion on the hit. “Yes,” he said. Did he want to share it? “No,” Sullivan replied before abruptly walking off the podium and beginning the bitter trip back to Pittsburgh. More on the Capitals: How the Capitals improved their defensive play in the postseason Barry Trotz doesn’t clear up discussion with John Tortorella