President Trump on Thursday signaled a more deliberate decision-making process on a possible military response to a suspected chemical attack in Syria, as his defense secretary presented options to the White House later in the day. Taking to Twitter on Thursday morning, Trump said a possible U.S. attack on Syria could be “very soon or not so soon at all” — a timetable at odds with what he suggested earlier in the week. “Never said when an attack on Syria would take place,” Trump wrote Thursday. Later Thursday, during a brief appearance before reporters, Trump said he was continuing to meet with advisers about the possibility of U.S. missile strikes, which have appeared likely since the deaths of more than 40 Syrian civilians in the rebel-held town of Douma, near Damascus, last weekend. “We’re having a meeting today on Syria, and we’re having a number of meetings today,” Trump said. “We’ll see what happens. We’re obviously looking at that very closely . . . . It’s too bad that the world puts us in a position like that.” Trump met with his national security team Thursday afternoon and the White House said afterward that no decision have been made on Syria. “We are continuing to asses intelligence and are engaged in conversations with our partners and allies,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement. Trump’s comments Thursday came a day after he escalated tensions over the suspected chemical attack by warning on Twitter that U.S. airstrikes “will be coming,” despite a pledge from Russia to shoot down American missiles aimed at its ally Syria. “Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart!’ ” Trump wrote. The administration has since tried to tamp down the idea that a military strike on Syria is imminent. Defense Sec. Jim Mattis sounded a note of caution Thursday, saying the United States had yet to obtain hard evidence linked to last weekend’s reported chemical attack and warning of the possibility for dangerous escalation. Speaking before the House Armed Services Committee, Mattis condemned the apparent attack in Douma, a Damascus suburb. “We have got to look at the use of chemical weapons, whether it be in Salisbury, England, or in Syria, as something that’s inexcusable, and it has got to be addressed, and if Russia prevents the U.S. from dealing with it, we can sit acquiescent or we can do something,” he said. But the Pentagon leader also said the United States did not have complete information about what occurred. “I believe there was a chemical attack, and we’re looking for the actual evidence,” he said. Mattis said he hoped that experts from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) would soon be granted access to the affected areas, but noted that inspectors would not have the ability to determine responsibility for the attack. The retired general said the United States would not get involved in Syria’s ongoing war, but would continue to act to stamp out the Islamic State. Military officials have signaled that mission will require the continued presence of U.S. forces in the months ahead. Asked about the legal basis for a potential action, Mattis suggested it could be framed as a self-defense strike given the proximity of a force of about 2,000 U.S. troops. “The use of chemical weapons in Syria is not something we should assume ... ‘Well, because he didn’t use them on us this time, he wouldn’t use them on us next time,’” he said. With Russia and Iran heavily invested in Assad’s survival, Mattis suggested the Pentagon would advise caution in discussing possible actions with the president. “We’re trying to stop the murder of innocent people, but, on a strategic level, it’s how do we keep this from escalating out of control, if you get my drift on that,” he said. Separately, a senior U.S. official said top Pentagon brass have argued that quick military action may have unintended consequences, including with Russia. Officials further contended that Trump could look weak if — like a unilateral military strike on Syria a year ago — a new assault failed to deter Assad. Pentagon officials have also argued to the White House that any action should be done in concert with allies Britain and France, and perhaps others. On Monday, Trump said a decision on Syria would come in 24 to 48 hours. That time frame has now elapsed and has been complicated by plans for an international inspection of the attack area. Trump drew flak for his tweets on Wednesday from critics who pointed out that he had regularly attacked President Barack Obama for previewing U.S. military strategy, revelations that Trump argued gave the enemy an advantage. [Trump chooses impulse over strategy as crises mount] As president, Trump has boasted that he does not disclose his plans ahead of time. In April 2017, as he contemplated a strike in Syria, Trump said, “One of the things I think you’ve noticed about me is: Militarily, I don’t like to say where I’m going and what I’m doing.” Asked during his weekly news conference if he thought Trump was “dithering,” House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) defended the president, saying he was right to consult with allies about a unified response. “I think you’re wrong to suggest he’s dithering,” Ryan said. “He’s not dithering.” Ryan said that he thinks “it’s important for us to help lead the international community to make sure people are held accountable for these mass atrocities.” U.S. officials have stressed in recent days that planning for airstrikes has been careful and orderly, and has involved diplomatic and intelligence agencies as well as the Pentagon. But the same officials also said Trump’s direct threat on Wednesday was unexpected. British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson appeared to cast doubt Thursday on an early strike, saying that Britain is calling for a meeting of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons next week. “We will now work tirelessly with our partners to help stamp out the grotesque use of weapons of this kind, and we have called a session of the OPCW Executive Council next Wednesday to discuss next steps,” Johnson said. “The Kremlin must give answers.” Meanwhile, CIA Director Mike Pompeo said during his confirmation hearing to become secretary of state that “a couple hundred Russians” were recently killed in Syria, an apparent reference to a shootout involving U.S. forces. The administration had previously refused to discuss the incident in detail. In his Thursday morning tweets, Trump also complained that the United States has not received enough credit for helping defeat the Islamic State terrorist group in the region. “In any event, the United States, under my Administration, has done a great job of ridding the region of ISIS,” Trump wrote. “Where is our ‘Thank you America?’”   Missy Ryan and Karen DeYoung contributed to this report. 