Sitting in a spacious press box and looking out over the immaculate green of a baseball field in April, Riverside coach Sam Plank felt content with his past decisions. “Nope, couldn’t ask for anything else,” he said as his team stretched in a circle down below. It was a windy Wednesday afternoon and practice had just begun without him. Three years ago, Plank decided to leave Stone Bridge, the defending Virginia 5A state champions and his team for 15 seasons, to come to new Riverside and its new field. He had been the first-ever coach at Stone Bridge (which opened in 2000) and had built the Bulldogs into a perennial contender. He arrived at Riverside with a desire to build something new and a four-year plan centered on competing for a conference championship by 2020. “I love how everything is a first,” he said of guiding a new program. “Building a culture, teaching kids how to do things the right way, setting up a tradition.” But Plank’s plan proved to be a significant underestimation of what could be done at Riverside. Last year, in their second-ever baseball season, the Rams went 24-4 and reach the Virginia 3A title game. This year, as a 4A squad, they have quickly established themselves as a team to beat, sporting a loaded roster and starting the year 8-1. No one at practice says it directly, but the new goal for Riverside is to win a state championship. In the midst of this meteoric rise, it’s the only goal left. “We shot past the goal posts last year and they’ve been quickly moved,” senior pitcher Robbie Ferreira said. [As high school star skips college for NBA’s G League, others remain skeptical] Ferreira represents one of the reasons Riverside has set themselves up as the class of Loudoun County so quickly: he played his freshman and sophomore seasons at Paul VI before transferring to the Rams last season. He is one of three transfers from the Washington Catholic Athletic Conference, often seen as the best high school sports league in the D.C. area, if not the country, on Riverside’s roster. “When you see private school kids coming back to public school, that’s pretty cool,” Plank said. After Ferreira went to a state championship last year in his first public school season, he convinced his friend and former Paul VI teammate Tyler Casagrande to come join him. Casagrande, a game-changing outfielder who committed to Arizona two years ago, drew some attention with his transfer. Before the season even started, area coaches were naming him as one of the best players in the county. Like Ferreira, Casagrande lives close to Riverside and the switch cut his school commute from over an hour to about 15 minutes. The fact that Riverside is an up-and-coming powerhouse also didn’t hurt. “I still get questions as to why I transferred. People say ‘you had a great last year, you guys were so good,’” Casagrande said. “But this team is really good, I think this year’s Riverside team could beat last year’s Paul VI team.” While Casagrande and others don’t live in the Riverside zone, they received special permission to go to the new school because their home school was overenrolled. Their presence, in addition to their play and overall talent level (according to Plank, seven of the Rams’ nine starters have received an offer to play in college), has drawn suspicion and criticism from other players and teams. “I get blasted all the time,” Plank said. “About recruiting and illegal players and this and that. It’s all legal. I just laugh.” The transfers, the sparkling facilities, the early success — all this has turned Riverside into a team that’s viewed by some as the villains of Loudoun County. “We love it. Our players get texts about people saying they only want to beat Riverside this season. We love the target on our back. When you win, people hate you,” Plank said. In the corner of the press box, on a marble-topped table, the Rams keep their trophy collection: regional champions, conference champions and state runner-up. They are all from last season. After answering his last question, Plank passes them without a glance on his way out the door, eager to join practice. More from The Post: ‘It’s unreal’: Video turns one-armed high school catcher into a viral star For some high school stars, best path to Division I, NFL is a switch to defensive back Hawaiian high school star QB Sol-Jay Maiava is transferring to St. John’s in D.C.