U.S. stocks plunged at the start of trading Wednesday as Trump escalated, China retaliated in a deepening trade dispute. The Dow Jones industrial average lost more than 500 points as trading opened. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index and tech-heavy Nasdaq also dropped sharply. The broad sell-off was in response to the tit-for-tat tariffs that the world’s two biggest economics announced Tuesday, when the Trump administration revealed about $50 billion in Chinese electronics, aerospace and machinery products it plans to hit with tariffs. The move threatens to upend global supply chains for corporations such as Apple and Dell, raise prices for American consumers who have grown accustomed to inexpensive electronics and aggravate tensions between the world’s two largest economies. business economy      false after3th true Economy & Business Email Alerts Breaking news about economic and business issues. Please provide a valid email address. China fired back by threatening tariffs on 106 U.S. products, including on soybeans, cars and some airplanes, in the latest escalation of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The news had an immediate impact on markets. U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, appearing on CNBC’s Squawk Box Wednesday morning, said he was dismayed by the big stock shifts. “This response should not really have suprised anyone,” Ross said during the interview. “I’m frankly a little surprised that Wall Street was so surprised by it. This has been telegraphed for weeks.” “Obviously investors do not like this type of uncertainty, and so it is not surprising that volatility has risen,” said Wayne Wicker, chief investment officer at ICMA Retirement Corp. “In looking back over the last week or so, the Dow has incurred a number of days of huge point moves. If you look back to 2017, the average move in the Dow was just 68 points. So volatility is back.” In Asia overnight, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index dropped 2.2 percent and South Korea’s main exchange was down more than 1 percent. In Europe, all major markets opened lower, pointing to another expected slump when Wall Street opens. Soybeans on the Chicago Board of Trade immediately dropped as much as 5.3 percent, while wheat and corn futures also slid, Bloomberg reported. At a news conference on Wednesday, Chinese officials stressed that Beijing is willing to work with the White House. “If someone wants a trade war, we will fight to the end. If someone wants to talk, our door is open,” said Wang Shouwen, vice minister of commerce. Zhu Guangyao, vice minister of finance said both sides were “showing their swords and making demands,” but needed to get back to the negotiating table. Trump tweeted his own take on the news. “We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S.,” he wrote, “Now we have a Trade Deficit of $500 Billion a year, with Intellectual Property Theft of another $300 Billion. We cannot let this continue!” When U.S. exports to China are factored in, analysts tend to put the trade deficit in goods between the two countries closer to $375 billion. Even the talk of a trade war has set investors on edge. “It’s the same concerns about the potential of a trade war. China made it clear they are willing to play tit for tat in this trade conflict,” said Ed Yardeni of Yardeni Research. “What the market is waiting for are signs that there will be some efforts to negotiate this out.”