Oregon child-welfare officials knew in July 2013 that Jennifer Hart — who last month drove her wife and six adopted children off a California cliff into the ocean — had already faced abuse allegations in another state, according to records from their investigation released Monday. They knew that when the family previously lived in Minnesota, Hart allegedly deprived the children of food and left them to rummage through trash for something to eat at school. School officials eventually stopped telling the Hart parents when their children took food from other students so that they wouldn’t be punished, records released to The Washington Post show. And officials knew the Harts faced abuse allegations in Oregon, including an incident in which Hart forced her children to lie on an inflated mattress for five hours with sleeping masks over their faces after a pizza went missing from an acquaintance’s fridge. Still, Oregon’s child protective agency closed its investigation into the family after five months, in December 2013. A welfare agent concluded that, despite at least seven independent reports of abuse across the two states, they were “unable to determine” if those reports were warranted because of “insufficient data.” The agency on Tuesday refused to say whether that conclusion was appropriate. The report redacts the name of the agent who conducted the assessment. When Minnesota’s child protective agency closed its investigation in 2011, a welfare worker said that problems in the Hart home may be overlooked because Jennifer and her wife Sarah, both 38, appeared to “look normal.” Because they were home-schooled and were rarely seen by doctors, the worker wrote, the children risked “falling through the cracks.” Now, at least four of those children are dead after the family’s SUV plunged 100 feet off a scenic Pacific Ocean overlook on March 26. Authorities believe the plunge was intentional, and preliminary toxicology results found that Jennifer Hart was drunk, with a blood alcohol level of 0.102. In California, drivers are considered legally drunk if they have a level of 0.08 or higher. [Body found floating in ocean is Ciera Hart, whose mother drove her family off a cliff, officials say] Authorities have so far recovered the bodies of Jennifer Hart, Sarah Hart and four of their six children: Markis, 19, Jeremiah, 14, Abigail, 14, and Ciera, 12. (Authorities previously referred to her as Sierra.) Two children — Devonte, 15, and Hannah, 16 — remain missing and are feared dead. Records released Monday by the Oregon Department of Human Services reveal a troubling narrative of how officials in both Minnesota and Oregon knew about the alleged abuse. The reports trace back to 2010, when the family lived in Minnesota, a few years after the Harts adopted two sets of siblings from Texas. Six separate incidents were reported to the Minnesota Department of Human Services between 2010 and 2011. They included Sarah Hart’s 2011 domestic assault conviction, which she told authorities was the result of a spanking that “got out of control” and left one of the daughters, Abigail, with bruising on her back and stomach. Sarah Hart received a 90-day suspended jail sentence. Records show the beating occurred because the Harts thought Abigail stole a penny and lied about it. Abigail told a Minnesota welfare worker that the Harts put her head under cold water and that Jennifer Hart put her hands on her neck, according to the report. Another daughter, Hannah, reported soon after that her “mom, Jen, hits me all the time,” records show. She had a dime-sized purple bruise on her hand. The children left Alexandria Public Schools in April 2011 to be home-schooled, according to school records obtained by The Post. The Harts then moved from Minnesota to Oregon and finally to Woodland, Wash., where they bought a house in 2017. Christine Stone, a spokeswoman for the Oregon DHS, told The Post that since the state closed its investigation in 2013, case workers have moved away from incident-based investigations to more comprehensive safety assessments to better determine the immediate needs of a child. While the agency is not commenting on the Hart family’s case, Stone said it hopes that “the release of these records may help [prevent] future tragedies by encouraging a national clearinghouse for records … for the prevention and protection from child abuse and neglect, particularly as to children and families who move across state lines.” [Perspective: We can’t ignore race in the tragic story of Devonte Hart and his white adoptive mothers] The Post earlier this month obtained records from the Washington Department of Social and Health Services, which revealed that three days before the crash, officials began investigating the family for abuse after a neighbor reported concerning incidents. Bruce DeKalb told The Post that one of the sons, Devonte, came to his home several times in March to ask for food and said his parents weren’t feeding him. He also reported that Hannah pounded on his door at 1:30 a.m. She had jumped out of the family’s second-story window and run through the woods toward the neighbor’s house. The 16-year-old, who DeKalb thought was only 7 and was missing some front teeth, was “rattled to the bone.” In 2013, at the time of the Oregon investigation, five of the six Hart children fell “below their growth charts” and appeared “small in stature,” records show. But a doctor expressed “no concern,” in part because the parents said the children had been small their entire lives. The Oregon investigation began about three months after the Harts moved there, records show. During a welfare worker’s visit with the family, Jennifer and Sarah Hart denied that the children were malnourished, and said the family is vegetarian and eats “healthy, organic food.” Jennifer Hart said the family believed in “home school and naturalistic medicine” and that she practiced meditation and yoga daily. She said she was involved in the music festival community and often traveled with the children for several weeks and months, attending different festivals. Sarah Hart worked as an employee at Kohl’s at the time. Jennifer Hart told the welfare worker that the family received about $2,000 a month in adoption assistance. At least two women who were in contact with the family reported concerns about child abuse to welfare officials. One night in June 2013, one of the woman hosted Jennifer Hart and the children and ordered pizza. Jennifer Hart allowed each child to eat just one tiny slice. In the morning, Jennifer Hart realized the leftover pizza was gone and reportedly punished all six children by depriving them of breakfast. She made them lay on an inflated air mattress with sleeping masks on their faces and their arms to their sides for five hours, according to child welfare records released Monday. The woman, who reported the incident to authorities, tried to explain to Jennifer Hart that she didn’t mind that the pizza was eaten. But Hart insisted on disciplining her children. [A look at the lives of 13 siblings held captive in a house full of chains — and what comes next] One woman said she witnessed Jennifer Hart grab and drag the children, and feed them only “tiny portions.” Both women told officials that Markis, the oldest child, was a particular target of Jennifer Hart, who reportedly told one of the women that Markis had attempted to kill her and that Devonte saved her. Devonte appeared to receive more affection from his parents than his siblings, records show. One of the women said that Jennifer Hart often made the children look like “one big happy family” in photos she would post on Facebook. After the photo was taken, the children would go “back to looking lifeless,” according to the report. The woman said that anytime someone confronted the Harts about their parenting — or about how little they were feeding the children — Jennifer Hart would have “an answer for everything.” “But then they will just cut people out of the world,” the woman said, according to the report. The woman warned welfare workers that the children were like “trained robots” and that they probably wouldn’t tell officials what was happening inside their home. She may have been right, as the children, when interviewed by the welfare worker, did not disclose that they were starved or abused. They provided nearly identical answers to the worker’s questions and showed little emotion, with the exception of Devonte, records show. On Tuesday, Lorraine Fealy, who lived across from the family in Minnesota, told The Post that the children rarely left the house. They often marched down the stairs or stood in a line, waiting for a command from Jennifer Hart. “This always bothered me and our neighbor next door,” she said. “It wasn’t right to us. We called them little soldiers.” She said she once told Jennifer Hart, “Oh my gosh, how do you do it with such perfect kids?” Hart looked incredulous. “She said, ‘They are not perfect kids!’ ” Fealy said. “She didn’t speak to me after that.” The Oregon report concluded that all six children were “high-risk, adopted children who were reported to have some medical or mental-health history and trauma at adoption. The children are completely dependent upon their caregivers and do not have regular contact with any mandatory reporters, as they are home-schooled.” Officials said they have searched the family’s home since the crash, as well as the couple’s bank and credit card statements and phone records. They have yet to outline what they have found, aside from saying there were no suicide notes. Sheila Regan contributed to this report. Read more: Family that is feared dead in SUV plunge had troubled home life, neighbors say The story behind the viral ‘hug’ photo after Ferguson A family disappeared on a road trip not far from where the Hart family was found