A newly acquired Washington Redskins player said he was pulled over Tuesday by a Virginia state trooper who asked him whether he was a gang member and expressed the belief that he dealt drugs. The player, Paul Richardson Jr., made the claim in a tweet that was later deleted. However, television stations showed images of it. The tweet was brought to the attention of state police, which said the matter was under review. In a statement, police said that no formal complaint had been filed, but that they were looking into the matter. The review would extend to the trooper’s “in-car camera footage of the traffic stop” to determine whether it conformed to state police policy, the police said. According to state police, Richardson was ticketed after a trooper made a stop of a Mercedes SUV about 1:30 p.m. Tuesday at an exit ramp from the Dulles Toll Road. The ramp led from the eastbound toll road to route 772 in Loudoun County, police said. In their statement, police said the trooper initiated the stop because the SUV lacked the license plates required by state law. Police said Richardson, whom they described as 26 and a resident of Ashburn, Va., was given a traffic summons alleging that the vehicle was not properly registered. In a second tweet about the incident, sent about a minute after the first, and also deleted, Richardson said he had been ticketed for having only temporary registration. But he said that he had had the vehicle only two weeks and that two months was allotted for re-registering it in Virginia. Richardson recently signed a five-year contract with the Redskins valued at $40 million. Last season he played for the Seattle Seahawks. He had 44 catches for more than 700 yards and six touchdowns during the 2017 season. Although depicted on the websites of at least two Washington television stations, Richardson’s tweets could not be found on his feed late Tuesday. He appeared, however, to address the matter in a tweet that was posted on his feed not long after the two that gave his account of the incident. “It’s true, but tweeting about it wasn’t the right way to deal,” the tweet said. In the first of his two deleted tweets, Richardson had this to say of the highway incident: “What a welcome to the east coast.”