Late in the first half Saturday night against the Chicago Red Stars, Washington Spirit goalkeeper Aubrey Bledsoe flashed the abilities that have propelled her to lead the National Women’s Soccer League in saves. In the 41st minute, Bledsoe made a leaping save, going to her right to make a one-handed stop on a corner kick. She suffered a bloody lip in a collision just after the play, but about three minutes after trainers tended to her on the field, Bledsoe again lunged to the ground to stop another Chicago set piece. The efforts, with Bledsoe anchoring a back line that faced 16 shots from the Red Stars, helped the Spirit keep the score at 1-1 entering halftime, a margin that endured through a physical second half amid wind and rain at Maryland SoccerPlex in Boyds. “There was just a lot of traffic in the box,” Bledsoe said of the first save of the sequence that left her with a gash on the right side of her lower lip. “We were kind of scrambling all back, and I saw [the ball] headed to the goal line. I knew I couldn’t hold on to it or I would be going into the goal, so I tried to swat it out, and then before I knew it, there was a foot in my face. It hurt a little bit, but my teeth are still there, and everything is good.” As Bledsoe adjusted her microphone for a postgame interview, she joked that she was “hanging on by a thread,” but some ice and Vaseline would help her heal by the time the Spirit travels to Utah Royals FC next weekend. Bledsoe, a Wake Forest product who was traded from the Orlando Pride in the offseason, entered the match Saturday with 26 saves — double the total of the league’s next closest goalkeeper. A week earlier, in a 1-1 draw against Portland Thorns FC, Bledsoe made five saves, including one on a late penalty kick to preserve the tie. Her performance helped stymie chances for the Red Stars (2-1-4), who outshot the Spirit 16-8, including 8-3 in the first half, and returned 2017 NWSL MVP Sam Kerr for her Chicago debut. Kerr, a forward who set a league record with 17 goals last season and plays with elite speed and agility, had missed the start of the season to play with the Australian national team. While the Spirit (1-2-3) allowed Kerr one shot on goal, she didn’t score. Forward Alyssa Mautz netted the Red Stars’ goal in the 20th minute. Bledsoe had been aggressive in coming up for a save in traffic on Kerr, but the goalie’s block ricocheted back into the box, and Mautz converted. “She’s just so athletic,” Spirit defender Estelle Johnson said of Kerr. “She’s just the full package. You kind of do what you can — a lot of help defense.” Bledsoe and the back line settled in afterward, the netminder said. Washington’s attack was aggressive early. In the fourth minute, forward Mallory Pugh, one of the game’s brightest young stars playing a day before her 20th birthday, found an opening on the goal line and crossed a pass to forward Francisca Ordega, who found the back of the net for her third goal in as many games. The Red Stars, however, controlled possession for the majority of the game, often testing the Spirit’s back line in the second half amid blustery conditions and a steady rain. “Defensively, we were very good,” Spirit Coach Jim Gabarra said. “There’s times this season we maybe would’ve conceded a goal there at the end or with the momentum given up a goal. . . . It was good we came together and fought off that barrage at the end.” Read more soccer coverage: ‘Maybe too passive’: D.C. United unable to earn point against Philadelphia LAFC got Bob Bradley, and everything else is falling in place in MLS debut season Washington Spirit to play one NWSL match at Audi Field this summer