RICHMOND — At the height of NASCAR’s popularity, stock-car racing fans turned Richmond International Raceway into the biggest sporting spectacle in Virginia, packing the grandstands 110,000 strong to cheer as the brightly painted cars roared past in a shimmering blur of speed. Then came the economic downturn of 2008, which snapped a streak of 33 consecutive sellouts. While the economy rebounded in the decade since, NASCAR’s ticket sales have not — even at Richmond’s three-quarter-mile oval, widely hailed as having hosted some of the most exciting competition on the circuit. Saturday night’s Toyota Owners 400 — won by Cup Series points leader Kyle Busch, who muscled from a dismal 32nd starting spot to his third consecutive victory in a Joe Gibbs-owned Toyota — represented the next step in track officials’ ongoing, multipronged effort to woo fans back to the storied, D-shaped oval. For starters, Richmond officials moved their marquee circuit’s springtime race back to Saturday night, abandoning a two-year stretch in which it was held Sunday afternoon, in hopes of capturing the vibe of their fall race under the lights. In July, they changed the track’s name, dropping “International” to send a message via the rebranded Richmond Raceway of pride in the venue’s legacy and its long-standing roots in the state. This weekend, they unveiled a Turn 4 party deck with the eyebrow-raising name of Climax Corner. It’s the product of a naming-rights deal with Virginia-based Climax Spirits, the brainchild of Tim Smith of Discovery Channel’s “Moonshiners.” Its chief appeal to the 21-and-older crowd, along with the opportunity to buy alcohol, was to watch the action from bar stools at a bargain price of $25 a ticket. And Saturday, they got an assist from the weather, with clear-blue skies at the 6:44 p.m. start and a lovely sunset midway through the action. But there were still empty seats at the dramatically downsized track, which now seats about 60,000 after the 2016 removal of the backstretch grandstands. For the roughly 40,000 who showed up, the value of the experience boiled down to the short-track racing itself, which might have been a bit tame for fans’ taste — at least until a flurry of cautions over the final 47 laps set tempers flaring and shifted the focus to speedy pit work, which proved pivotal to Busch’s overtime victory over Chase Elliott by a 0.511-second margin. Finishing third was Busch’s Joe Gibbs teammate Denny Hamlin, a three-time winner at the Richmond track who is still seeking his first win of the season. [For Denny Hamlin, NASCAR stops at Richmond short track always feel like home] “Thanks to our pit crew,” Busch said afterward with Gibbs seated alongside him. “The last two pit stops got us the lead, and we were fast enough on short runs to hold on.” The first half of the 400-lap event whizzed past under green-flag conditions, with the only cautions coming at the scheduled breaks in the action that marked the first two stages of the three-stage race. Joey Logano, winless since this event last April, won Saturday’s first two stages in his Ford, collecting bonus points for leading at the 100- and 200-lap marks. By the time the third and final stage got underway, it was fully dark, and the cars that had been slipping and sliding in the early going were easier to handle. Just 47 laps remained when the first caution flew for contact, brought out when Dave Blaney rounded Turn 4 in a blur and tangled with Ricky Stenhouse Jr. and Cole Whitt in the process, as onrushing cars darted high and low to avoid a pileup. Martin Truex Jr., who led a race-high 121 laps, was out front when the racing resumed with 40 laps to go. That’s when Busch showed what his Toyota could do, moving around Kevin Harvick and into second. Ryan Newman smacked the wall to bring out another caution as his car spewed fluid on the track. As he wheeled into the garage, teammates Jamie McMurray and Kyle Larson bashed into each other on the track, hashing out a mutual beef. Full-speed racing had barely resumed when David Ragan cut a tire round, causing him to lose control rounding Turn 4. Truex lost any shot at the victory on the pit stop that followed: His team struggled with the left-side jack, costing him four precious seconds. Busch’s crew got him out first, so all he needed to do was fend off the crowd behind him. He made that look easy, although one last caution — triggered by a Stenhouse wreck — tested him by setting the green-white-checkered flag dash for the victory. “You just got to work, man,” said Busch, 32, who joined Harvick with a series-high three victories just nine races into the 36-race season. “It’s definitely cool we won three in a row. It’s hard to go to Talladega [next week] with that much of a winning streak and think we can win there, too, but we’re going to try.”                 