Career civil rights prosecutors have again recommended pursuing charges against the officer involved in the death of Eric Garner, whose videotaped takedown by New York City police officers sparked a national outcry, though it remains uncertain if a case will be approved at the highest levels of the Justice Department, a person familiar with the matter said. The recommendation to charge New York City Police Officer Daniel Pantaleo came in recent weeks, and now must be weighed by Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the person said. Pantaleo was among those involved in the 2014 incident in which officers took Garner to the ground. Garner, whose gasps of “I can’t breathe” were caught on tape, later died and became a rallying cry for those angered by police treatment of African Americans. While significant, the recommendation does not offer clarity on where the case might be headed. Career civil rights prosecutors had previously advocated for charges in the case, though they met fierce resistance from their colleagues in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Eastern District of New York. Lawyer Jonathan C. Moore, who represents Garner’s family, said, “It’s long overdue for some prosecutorial action against these officers who killed Eric Garner,” though he quickly added, “We don’t have any real confidence in the leadership of the DOJ that they’ll follow the recommendation of their line attorneys. We think they should, but we’re not hopeful.” Stuart London, an attorney for Pantaleo, said: “Politics should never trump the rule of law. Officer Pantaleo has always been confident that he never violated Mr. Garner’s civil rights. This was, and continues to be, a simple street encounter, remembering that it is always a tragedy when there is a loss of life.” Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch authorized prosecutors to move forward with a grand jury, though her approval came so late in her tenure that the matter was essentially left to Sessions. The development was first reported by the New York Times.