Exceptional     Excellent     Very Good Don’t be put off by unusual packaging, such as cans or flip-top stoppers: The wine may still be delicious. Here’s one of the best rosés I’ve tasted so far from the 2017 vintage, in 250 milliliter cans, plus a tasty inexpensive one in a bottle more familiar for beer.  Provence, France, $20 for a 4-pack of 250 ml cans Sure, this wine seems slick to be packaged in cans, but it is quite good — in fact, it’s one of the best rosés I’ve tasted from the 2017 vintage. The price is equivalent to $15 for a standard bottle, so it isn’t really cheap, but the cans offer convenience for picnics or even a restaurant by-the-glass program. ABV: 13.2 percent. Distributed by Country Vintner: Available in the District at MLK Deli, Sherry’s Fine Wine & Spirits; on the list at Calico, Elle. Available in Maryland at Balducci’s, Beer, Wine & Co. and Bradley Food & Beverage in Bethesda, Beers & Cheers Too, Downtown Crown Wine and Beer, and Finewine.com in Gaithersburg, the Bottle Shop in Potomac, Fine Wine of Wheaton and Wheaton Winery in Wheaton, Gilly’s Craft Beer & Fine Wine in Rockville, Market at River Falls in Potomac, Mt. Airy Liquors in Mt. Airy, Rodman’s in White Flint, Port Tack Wine & Spirits in Arnold, Wine Source in Baltimore; on the list at Pure Wine Cafe in Ellicott City. Available in Virginia at Balducci’s (Alexandria, McLean), Crystal City Wine Shop in Arlington, Dominion Wine and Beer in Falls Church, Norm’s Beer & Wine in Vienna, Oakton Wine Shop in Oakton.  Spain, $14 This is textbook garnacha (the Spanish name for Grenache, familiar to fans of southern Rhone wines from France). It offers spicy flavors of cranberry and raspberry, and enough heft to pair with meats or fish from the grill. ABV: 14 percent. Distributed by DMV: Available in the District at Paul’s of Chevy Chase, Rodman’s, Yes! Organic Market (Georgia Avenue). Widely available in Maryland, including at Cork 57 Beer and Wine, Georgetown Square Wine and Beer in Bethesda, Dawson’s Liquors in Severna Park, Decanter Fine Wines in Columbia, Franklin Liquors in Ijamsville, Franklin’s Restaurant, Brewery and General Store in Hyattsville, Hop N Grape in North Bethesda, Takoma Park-Silver Spring Co-op in Takoma Park, Village Beer & Fine Wine in Rockville. Available in Virginia at Wegmans (various locations).  Austria, $13 This tasty rosé was one of my Best Great Values of 2017. The new vintage is delicious, too, with flavors of melon and strawberry and a hint of sage or mint that speaks of warm weather refreshment. ABV: 12 percent. Distributed by Kysela: Available in the District at Cairo Wine & Liquor, Calvert Woodley, Cork & Fork, Eye Street Cellars, Magruder’s, Righteous Cheese, Rodman’s, Sheffield Wine & Liquor Shoppe, Wardman Wines. Available in Maryland at Antietam Spirits in Boonsboro, Bay Ridge Wine & Spirits in Annapolis, Columbia Fine Wine & Spirits in Columbia, Dulaney Wines & Spirits in Towson, Dunkirk Wine & Spirits in Dunkirk, Finewine.com in Gaithersburg, Fishpaws Marketplace in Arnold, Petite Cellars and the Wine Bin in Ellicott City, ’Ye Old Spirit Shop in Frederick. Available in Virginia at the Caboose Market & Cafe in Ashland, the Chef’s Market and Kimberly’s in Winchester, German Gourmet in Falls Church, Locke Store in Millwood, Unwined in Alexandria.  Italy, $18 This single-vineyard Soave is a classic Italian white, minerally with firm acidity and ripe stone fruit flavors. Enjoy this with grilled fish or smoked trout. ABV: 12.5 percent. Distributed by Le Storie: Available in the District at DCanter, MacArthur Beverages. Available in Virginia at Arrowine and Cheese in Arlington, Grape + Bean (Old Town, Rosemont); on the list at Saison in Richmond.  Pays d'Oc, France, $11 Unconventional packaging again, with the swing-cap stopper more familiar on beer bottles. Thing is, this rosé is so delicious that you won’t want to re-close the bottle — unless of course you reuse it for salad dressing or something else. ABV: 13 percent. Distributed by M. Touton: Available in the District at Capital City Wine & Spirits, Eye Street Cellars, Harry’s Reserve Fine Wine & Spirits, Rodman’s. Available in Maryland at 5 O’Clock Wines & Spirits in Owings Mills, Allview Liquors, Petite Cellars and Wine Bin in Ellicott City, Bethesda Co-Op in Cabin John, Bradley Food & Beverage in Bethesda, Franklin’s Restaurant, Brewery and General Store in Hyattsville, Greenbelt Co-op in Greenbelt, Grosvenor Market in Rockville, Lady’s Liquors in La Plata, Landover Liquor in Cheverly, Montpelier Liquors in Laurel, Old Farm Liquors, Plus Mart, Riverside Liquors and Viniferous in Frederick, Wheaton Winery in Wheaton, the Wine Harvest (Gaithersburg, Potomac). Available in Virginia at Specials Wine Cellar in Kilmarnock, the Vineyard in McLean, the Wine Outlet (Great Falls, Vienna). Availability information is based on distributor records. Wines might not be in stock at every listed store and might be sold at additional stores. Prices are approximate. Check Winesearcher.com to verify availability, or ask a favorite wine store to order through a distributor. More from Food: Wine