President Trump suggested Monday that his upcoming meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un could take place on the border with South Korea, saying it would a better location than in a “third-party” country. Trump said last week that a site for the historic meeting had been narrowed to two or three possible locations, with speculation focusing on other countries in the region, including Singapore and Mongolia. Taking to Twitter on Monday morning, Trump said “numerous countries” are under consideration but floated the idea of meeting Kim at Peace House, a neutral site in the demilitarized zone. “Numerous countries are being considered for the MEETING, but would Peace House/Freedom House, on the Border of North & South Korea, be a more Representative, Important and Lasting site than a third party country? Just asking!” Trump wrote. [North Korea promises to dismantle its nuclear test site in public view, South says] Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in met at Peace House last week, at a summit that culminated in a joint statement promising to bring about a formal end to the Korean War and work toward the “complete denuclearization” of the Korean Peninsula. Trump has heaped praised on that meeting, which provided powerful optics. Another practical consideration is that Kim has limited ability to travel, given the dilapidated condition of his aircraft. At a campaign-style rally in Michigan on Saturday, Trump told the audience that he expects to meet Kim in the next three or four weeks. “It’s going be a very important meeting, the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula,” he said. “But we’ll see how it goes,” he added. “I may go in, it may not work out, I leave.” In recent days, Trump has claimed credit for the momentum in the diplomatic efforts to resolve the North Korean nuclear situation. On Sunday, the South Korean government announced that the North would dismantle its main nuclear test site next month and that Kim was prepared to meet with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.