Democrats are warning that the Senate Judiciary Committee chairman’s proposed changes to a bill to protect special counsels from undue firing would give the GOP the ability to tip off President Trump about developments in Robert S. Mueller III’s probe of him — the latest flash point on the legislation’s rocky road to a committee vote, expected Thursday. Chairman Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) has been circulating a draft of his amendment, which he plans to offer Thursday as a stand-in for the special counsel protection bill that Sens. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) and Christopher A. Coons (D-Del.) unveiled two weeks ago, after months of negotiations. Grassley characterized the amendment as an improvement to the legislation, which has raised constitutional separation-of-powers concerns because it potentially subjects the president’s decision to fire a special counsel to a review by a panel of three federal judges. The amendment adds reporting requirements to Congress that Grassley believes would equip lawmakers to act to protect a special counsel — potentially even by starting impeachment proceedings — if the courts strike down the constitutionally controversial parts of the legislation. But Democrats see a potential Trojan horse in those reporting requirements, which require special counsels like Mueller to inform the House and Senate Judiciary Committee leaders “if there is any change made to the specific nature or scope of the investigation of the Special Counsel,” within 30 days of making that change. Once sensitive information about Mueller’s probe is in the hand of lawmakers, Democrats fear Trump’s allies on the Hill could pass the information on to the president and his lawyers, to keep the president and his affiliates a step ahead of Mueller’s probe. Even if information isn’t passed directly to the White House, Democratic aides complained, some lawmakers might try to exert political influence over the probe if they know in which direction it is heading. According to a copy of the drafted obtained by The Washington Post, Grassley’s amendment would also require the special counsel to give lawmakers a specific argument about why they cannot publicize the information they receive, but only for reasons of preserving national security. The amendment also stipulates that the special counsel must justify his or her probe to the attorney general for purposes of approving the budget every 90 days. A spokesman for Grassley did not return an emailed request for comment. Grassley conceived of the amendment as a sort of backup plan for the compromise special counsel protection bill — which is preserved in its entirety as a part of his amendment. He, like several others, have raised concerns that the procedure for reviewing an order to fire a special counsel, which delays the firing for 10 days and guarantees an ousted counsel judicial review within 14 — might not stand up in court if challenged on constitutional grounds. The amendment also spells out the terms under which a special counsel may be appointed. Those sections are not expected to cause any dispute between the parties. It is not clear whether the amendment will change before Grassley is expected to present it to the Judiciary Committee for its consideration Thursday. The authors of the special counsel bill are discussing the details of the proposed amendment with Grassley’s staff in the hope of working out a compromise. The bill will likely need a strongly bipartisan endorsement from the Judiciary Committee if it is to stand a chance of being considered on the Senate floor; Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) last week told Fox News he would refuse to bring it to a vote. Tillis and other sponsors of the legislation said last week they were working to change McConnell’s mind. Read more at PowerPost