Costa Rican voters headed to the polls Sunday to decide a tight presidential race between an evangelical singer who campaigned against same-sex marriage and a novelist and former cabinet member who aspires to be the ruling party’s successor. The recent surge of Fabricio Alvarado Muñoz, known as a TV journalist, pastor and religious singer, has focused attention on marriage, abortion and other social issues, while highlighting the growing power of socially conservative and evangelical voters in the small Central American country. Alvarado, 43, cast himself as an anti-corruption crusader. He had been lagging in the polls, but after he began campaigning in opposition to a January ruling by the Inter-American Court of Human Rights that its member countries should allow same-sex marriage, he made a rapid comeback and finished first in February’s initial round of voting. His opponent in the runoff is Carlos Alvarado, 38, a novelist and musician who served in cabinet positions for the current president, Luis Guillermo Solís. Carlos Alvarado, no relation to Fabricio Alvarado, has come out strongly in favor of gay rights. The ruling by the Inter-American court “was really the equivalent of dropping an atomic bomb on the race,” said Kevin Casas-Zamora, a senior fellow at the Inter-American Dialogue in Washington and a former vice president of Costa Rica. “The whole race was transformed literally overnight.” “The election became, de facto, a referendum on same-sex marriage,” he said. Central American countries tend to be predominantly Catholic and socially conservative, with relatively strict laws limiting abortion. In Costa Rica, the evangelical vote has been growing in recent decades, and polls have shown that a majority of Costa Ricans oppose same-sex marriage. The election is also unusual because it is the first time that neither of the two traditional parties have candidates in the runoff for the presidency. The fragmented political landscape has allowed two young, relatively inexperienced candidates a chance to seize the presidency. Political observers say Carlos Alvarado of the Citizen Action Party, who served as labor minister, has been hurt by corruption allegations against the Solis administration, which came to power in 2014 on promises to offer a new, corruption-free alternative to the traditional parties. In one major case, Costa Rican authorities have arrested several people on allegations of influence-peddling related to Chinese cement imports. “That has hurt the sitting party, because it was founded as a party of ethics,” said Ludovico Feoli, director of the Center for Inter-American Policy and Research at Tulane University. “It distanced them from their original values.” Fabricio Alvarado, who has represented the National Restoration Party in the legislature since 2014, has said that he used to have no political ambitions. He said he became a legislative candidate for his party after another person dropped out and “after consulting God, my wife, and my pastor,” according to a TV interview. Recent polls indicate that the race is nearly even. Results are expected Sunday evening. “It’s a statistical dead heat,” Feoli said. “It will come down to the last minute.” Read more Exploring Costa Rica, from one side of the ocean to the other In Costa Rica, where rain forest meets seashore Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news