President Trump will travel to Britain in July for a working visit, the office of British Prime Minister Theresa May announced Thursday, making good on plan delayed in part by the threat of protests in London. The trip will include talks with British leaders but will be a lower-key affair and not a full state visit, Downing Street confirmed. “The President of the United States will visit the U.K. on July 13th. He will hold bilateral talks with the Prime Minister during his visit. Further details will be set out in due course,” the prime minister’s office said in a statement. British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said it was “fantastic news” that Trump would “at last come to Britain.” “Looking forward to seeing our closest ally and friend on the GREATest visit ever,” Johnson tweeted. May was the first foreign leader to meet with Trump in Washington after his inauguration in January 2017. At the time, she said Trump had accepted an invitation from Queen Elizabeth II for a state visit later in the year. But British lawmakers and others objected to a full state visit, which traditionally includes a carriage ride with the queen and a banquet at Buckingham Palace. Trump is a deeply controversial figure in Britain, largely because of his anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim positions. In November, he prompted widespread criticism when he retweeted a far-right British group’s anti-Muslim videos. After May said he was wrong to have shared the videos, Trump told her to focus on terrorism in her country. Trump told May in a phone call in December that he planned to visit in early 2018, and the U.S. ambassador in London, Woody Johnson, said he hoped Trump would cut the ribbon for the new U.S. Embassy in south London. Numerous activist groups vowed to disrupt such a visit. Trump later dropped the plan, saying the new $1 billion embassy was a bad real estate deal for an “off location.” He blamed former President Barack Obama, although the deal was struck under President George W. Bush. The location was determined primarily by security concerns. Trump and May had said at their last meeting, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January, that the visit would occur soon. Trump said in Davos that the perception of a poor relationship between the two leaders is incorrect. The two speak far less frequently than do Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron, however, and it was France and not staunch ally Britain that was rewarded with the first state visit of the Trump presidency. London Mayor Sadiq Khan, who has previously feuded publicly with Trump, tweeted Thursday: “If he comes to London, President Trump will experience an open and diverse city that has always chosen unity over division and hope over fear. He will also no doubt see that Londoners hold their liberal values of freedom of speech very dear.” Adam reported from London.