Sridevi, Bollywood’s leading lady of the 1980s and 1990s who became one of the first female superstars in her country’s male-dominated film industry, died Feb. 24 in Dubai. She was 54. The cause was cardiac arrest, her brother-in-law Sanjay Kapoor told Indian Express online. She had been in Dubai to attend a wedding in her extended family. An autopsy report says the cause was accidental drowning in a hotel bathtub. Sridevi — she used one name on-screen, like many leading ladies of her generation — was known for her comic timing and her dancing skills, a great asset in the song-and-dance melodramas that are a staple of mainstream Indian cinema. Indian political leaders and entertainers posted condolences and recollections of her work, with many colleagues and fans expressing shock at the sudden news. “Absolute shock,” tweeted Rishi Kapoor, her co-star in the 1989 film “Chandni,” or “Moonlight,” in which Sridevi played a woman choosing between two loves. Sridevi began acting as a child in regional cinema in India’s south and made her debut in Hindi-language Bollywood films in the late 1970s. Her best-known roles included “Mr. India,” in which she played a reporter, and “Lamhe,” or “Moments,” a 1991 film in which she played dual roles of mother and teenage daughter. Her comic timing and dancing skills were front and center in “ChaalBaaz,” or “Game Player,” in 1989, where she played twins separated at birth. She shared the screen with some of Indian cinema’s most popular leading men, from Amitabh Bachchan to Shahrukh Khan. Another co-star was Anil Kapoor, her brother-in-law who was known in the West for his role in the Oscar-winning “Slumdog Millionaire” (2008). Sridevi stopped acting for several years after her marriage to film producer Boney Kapoor but made a well-received comeback in 2012 with “English Vinglish,” a nuanced performance about a middle-aged woman learning English to fit in better with her family. Her last performance was the 2017 film “Mom,” where she played a woman seeking vengeance after her stepdaughter is raped. She was born in Sivakasi, India, on Aug. 13, 1963. Her first marriage, to actor Mithun Chakraborty, ended in divorce. Survivors include her husband and two daughters from their marriage. Read more  Washington Post obituaries  Nanette Fabray, 3-time Emmy winner as Sid Caesar’s comic foil on TV, dies at 97 Harriet Fier, ‘assertive and savvy’ editor with Rolling Stone, dies at 67 Richard Taylor, Nobel-winning physicist who helped discover quarks, dies at 88