Prentis Robinson rarely went a day without using Facebook Live — his favorite way of broadcasting his music, his musings and, authorities said, his suspicions about who in Wingate was dealing drugs. He was on Facebook Live as usual on Monday, recording himself with a selfie stick, wearing one of the straw cowboy hats he often donned in videos. He talked about how his phone was stolen as he walked around Wingate, N.C., the town southeast of Charlotte where he lived. He stopped by police headquarters to check in with Chief Donnie Gay. “Bring his phone back so he can get on with his way today,” Gay said in front of Robinson’s camera, according to video, part of which was posted by the Charlotte Observer. Robinson left and kept walking. Moments later, Robinson’s Facebook Live stream showed his horrifying death, in real time. It happened about 5 1/2 minutes into the video, when Robinson was approached by a man holding a long black object. He jumped, suddenly startled, and informed the person off screen that he was recording. “You on live,” he said, pivoting the camera. “You on live.” Then: Gunshots. The camera fell, landing face up. The rest of Robinson’s final  video showed treetops, the sky and a brief flash of the fleeing suspect. A car could be seen pulling over at the edge of the screen, after the driver or a passenger apparently spotted Robinson. The 55-year-old was found lying down with several gunshot wounds and was pronounced dead at the scene. Late Monday, police identified the suspected gunman as Douglas Cleveland Colson, 60. Police had interviewed Colson on Monday, shortly after the shooting, but he wasn’t arrested, the Observer reported. But authorities got more information later in the day and sought murder warrants, the newspaper said. Colson turned himself into police on Tuesday morning and has been charged with first-degree murder, according to CBS affiliate WBTV. [‘We are grateful this has ended’: Inside the manhunt for Facebook murder suspect Steve Stephens] Although the violent final moments of Robinson’s life were caught on camera, the motive for his shooting remained a mystery. But rumors swirled. Gay, the police chief, told Fox 46 in Charlotte that Robinson had been identifying suspected drug dealers during some of his Facebook Live streams. The chief said he had “always suspected [Robinson] would’ve been beat up over it but never shot,” Fox 46 reporter David Sentendrey wrote in a tweet. According to Sentendrey, Robinson’s relatives said he would sometimes “try to help police find drug dealers, even though he had his own demons.” And if someone gave Robinson trouble, it would undoubtedly end up on Facebook Live, they said — easily seen by Robinson’s 5,000 friends. “If somebody messed with him he’d definitely go on Live,” Sentendrey said, citing a family member. A dispatcher reached at the Wingate Police Department on Tuesday told The Washington Post that no one was immediately available to comment. Investigators were expected to release more information later Tuesday, the dispatcher said. The shooting occurred near Wingate University, sending the college and nearby Wingate Elementary School into temporary lockdowns, even though the shooting did not occur on either campus. The university had initially tweeted that shots were fired near a dorm, but the rumors of an active shooter on campus were quashed by the Union County Sheriff’s Office. Gay told WBTV he was shocked that the shooting happened so close to the police department. Facebook has removed the video from Robinson’s profile. The company could not be immediately reached for comment. Facebook announced last year it was hiring 3,000 employees to help screen violent live videos before they spread across the network. local  true-crime Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Local Headlines newsletter Daily headlines about the Washington region. Please provide a valid email address. This post has been updated. More reading: Man’s naked ATV joyride ends in custody Woman was stabbed to death with a 10-inch hunting knife in a library reading room A former stripper wants a pardon from Missouri’s governor after they were accused of the same crime