Tammi Ramzziddin stood before a vigil Wednesday night and told a crowd that she always believed her husband, Mujahid, was a hero. She so believed it that she bought superhero T-shirts for him to wear under his Prince George’s County police uniform. The widow of the fallen officer, who was killed while helping a woman during a domestic dispute Feb. 21, shared that memory, expressions of gratitude, teary moments of loss and many words of encouragement during brief but strongly delivered remarks in the Brandywine neighborhood. “I knew I married a superhero; now all of you know that, too,” she said. Ramzziddin was off duty when Glenn Tyndell, the estranged husband of a neighbor, shot the officer five times when he tried to help the woman near his home last week. Police later shot and killed Tyndell during a confrontation. Her words spoke mainly about the life Ramzziddin led as a public servant, a man of faith, and the loss of his family. She momentarily sobbed as she shared her sense of loss. “As his wife, I cry for all the lost dreams of growing old. I cry for the trips we planned together. I cry for just not spending each and every day together,” she said. “My heart just aches.” Yet through her sadness, Tammi Ramzziddin offered uplifting words to each community that her husband had touched: in law enforcement, at his mosque and to his four children and her two children who survive him. She thanked Prince George’s County Police Chief Hank Stawinski and the “brothers and sisters in blue” for the support they have shown her. “I cannot put into words my gratitude for all the hugs and love that you have shown my family in these very dark hours. I pray that you too find peace,” she said. To the members of his mosque, Tammi Ramzziddin said that “Islam was the very foundation of his life.” And then to his surviving family, including his mother and particularly to his children, she issued a challenge to find ways to continue his legacy of service. “You have some big shoes to fill,” Tammi Ramzziddin said. “It doesn’t end here, my little ones. We have work to do.” Many in the crowd held lit candles, while others toted white balloons, some of them shaped as doves, which were set free at the end of the vigil. Moments later, Tammi Ramzziddin thanked the audience and asked for one last show of support. “I take all hugs!” she proclaimed as she stepped from behind a podium. A crowd of dozens encircled her, and she greeted each person with lingering embraces. Mark Datcher, 52, a distant relation who never met her husband, drove from Hyattsville to pay homage to a fallen officer.  In his final weeks before the fatal shooting, Tammi Ramzziddin said her husband had spent many hours alone in his bedroom or basement, deep in prayer. She believed that time reinforced his connection to his faith and the life of service that ultimately led to his death. “A part of my heart is comforted, knowing that he gave his life for somebody else and knowing he was spiritually prepared for Feb. 21,” she said.