Washington Wizards Coach Scott Brooks saw it coming and warned anyone who’d listen. When the third quarter strikes, watch out for the Golden State Warriors. If the Warriors weren’t fearsome enough with their four all-stars and two former MVPs, their lineup becomes even more terrifying with some rest and halftime adjustments. “That’s their quarter,” Brooks said before the Wizards fell to the champs Wednesday night, 109-101. “You can’t rest.” Brooks was right. When the teams returned from halftime, a two-point game at intermission turned into a double-digit Golden State lead entering the fourth quarter at Capital One Arena. The Warriors (48-14) score a league-best 30.9 points in the third quarter. Count it a small victory that Washington held Golden State to under its average, but the 27-14 advantage in the quarter essentially ended a competitive game and a chance at a defining win for the Wizards (36-26). With all-star point guard John Wall still in a suit on the sideline as he recovers from knee surgery, Washington collected more assists than Golden State through two quarters (17 to 15) and trailed just 58-56 — despite an abysmal night from Bradley Beal (eight points on 3 of 15 from the floor). [Kevin Durant isn’t buying that the Wizards are better without John Wall] The Wizards shot just 40 percent in the first half, yet almost inconceivably they were right in the game. Then the third quarter arrived. In that frame, the Warriors stealthily moved backdoor for paint points and hissed three-pointers with blink-and-you-miss-it haste. They weren’t perfect — committing four turnovers and making a trio of those long-distant shots — but they played far better than the Wizards. That quarter only magnified the Wizards’ biggest issue on the night — eight of Washington’s 18 turnovers came during the stretch. The Warriors scored 26 points off giveaways overall. Five Golden State players finished in double figures, led by Kevin Durant’s game-high 32. Steph Curry did not shoot the ball well (5 of 15) but still scored 21 thanks to 11 free throws mixed in with four three-pointers. Although Otto Porter Jr. countered with 29 points and 10 rebounds and Markieff Morris produced 16 and nine, their efforts found little help from the rest of the starting lineup. Flashback to the Oct. 27 matchup when Washington lost to the Warriors, 120-117, at Oracle Arena. Though it was the fifth game of the season, the Wizards’ ball movement stood out — even all these months later, as Brooks reflected on that night before the rematch — and the team built an 18-point lead inside a raucous venue in which many other teams fall apart. However Beal played just 15 minutes after being ejected along with Draymond Green for a tussle late in the first half. Beal, who said he is now “cool” with Green, had seen his rival a couple weeks ago during the all-star break, and any festering resentments had been cleared up with a friendly dap. “The Draymond thing, that’s long and done. That’s over,” Beal said. “There’s no problem there.” Beal wasn’t looking forward to this matchup for payback. Instead, Beal wanted a do-over because the last time — by his own admission — he had a “bad game” in missing five of his seven shot attempts before the ejection. But in searching for rhythm Wednesday night, Beal found only more complications. A bricked three-pointer, a blown pullup, a sloppy step-back — the misses piled up. He missed his first nine attempts. As the game progressed, he became more facilitator than shot-maker. While the Wizards’ backcourt produced just seven first-half points, all belonging to Tomas Satoransky, the Porter-Morris frontcourt carried the starters in scoring 28 points on 9-of-16 shooting, which included six threes. In the closing seconds of the half, Beal swung a pass to Satoransky alone in the corner and his spot-up three tied the score at 56. sports wizards  Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. The Warriors nudged ahead by two before the halftime buzzer. But the third quarter belonged to the champs. Beal finally got on the scoreboard at the 5:19 mark of the third with a long jumper and the Wizards trailed 77-70. Not an insurmountable deficit. However, the Warriors activated their jets — Durant sliced behind defenders for the layup off a pass from Green. Before the public address announcer could bellow the final syllable of “Durant,” Curry had intercepted the inbounds pass from Wizards center Ian Mahinmi then stepped behind the left arc for a three. Just like that, the lead was 12. On the next possession, Curry’s on-ball defense caused Beal to dribble too long then force a late pass to Mike Scott and the Wizards committed another turnover with the shot-clock violation. In the final 15.8 seconds of the game, Curry heard the smattering of ‘M-V-P’ chants from the heavy presence of Warriors fans. Since their team controlled the third quarter — as well as the game — their voices commandeered the arena.