The celebration matches the flash with which Evgeny Kuznetsov plays. He kicks up a leg, holds out his stick and lifts up his other arm, dangling his fingers overhead. He did it twice Tuesday night, all part of the Evgeny Kuznetsov Show at Capital One Arena. Kuznetsov scored two goals in a 3-2 Washington Capitals win over the Ottawa Senators, and he now has six points in his past three games. Kuznetsov’s two goals have him at 19 for the season, matching last season’s total with 18 games to go. He has scored 22 points in the past 24 games, often toying with opponents as he has twirled around in the offensive zone with his dynamic skating and skill. The win moved the Capitals back into first place in the Metropolitan Division after they had slipped a spot following their 5-1 loss to Columbus on Monday night. “Overall, I love the way we’re playing,” Kuznetsov said. “Sometimes we not play our game, but that’s why we have 82 games, you know? We can play a bad game, but sometimes you need those games. You can sit and understand where you are, and after a couple wins, you get so, so emotional, but when you give up some bad goals and you lose the game, that’s when you can see how strong you are. I think we’re a strong team. Some of those tough losses make us stronger.” [Blue Jackets Coach John Tortorella apologizes for exchange with Alex Ovechkin] The Capitals’ scoring has been top-heavy all season, led by captain Alex Ovechkin’s league-best 39 goals. Kuznetsov is second with his 19 tallies. He is known more for his passing ability, often frustrating fans with his hesitation to shoot, but his two most frequent linemates — wingers T.J. Oshie and Jakub Vrana — are both enduring goal droughts, so Kuznetsov has become the main scoring threat on that second line. After Oshie scored a career-high 33 goals last season, he has just 12 this season and hasn’t scored an even-strength tally in his past 27 games. Vrana’s last goal came Dec. 14. “As long as we’re winning and our line is going, it doesn’t really matter who’s going to score,” Vrana said, “but Kuzy actually took it in his hands today.” “I thought that line was outstanding today,” Coach Barry Trotz said. Kuznetsov opened the scoring for the Capitals on the shift right after the team killed off a Matt Niskanen interference penalty. Niskanen sprung out of the box, creating a three-on-two with Oshie and Kuznetsov. Oshie fed Kuznetsov as he was driving the net, and with goaltender Mike Condon still facing Oshie as the puck landed on Kuznetsov’s stick, Kuznetsov shot into a half-open net for a 1-0 lead 15:16 into the game. Tom Wilson then scored 43 seconds into the second period for a two-goal cushion. The Senators answered with a Mike Hoffman power-play goal that came immediately after a 91-second two-man advantage expired. But with just 12 seconds left in the second period, Kuznetsov sped into the offensive zone, around the net, and scored on a wraparound that literally knocked Condon off his skates. “I tried to just get the puck in and then just skate,” Kuznetsov said. “No one was open, and then I saw the goalie was so close on me. You know, I try so many times, it never gets in. But today was a lucky day.” Superstar Ottawa defenseman Erik Karlsson scored 3:14 into the third period, but Capitals goaltender Philipp Grubauer made nine of his 28 saves in the final period to seal the win. sports capitals  Get the top Olympics news by email Major news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox as it happens. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 true endOfArticle false Monday Morning Post Up newsletter All the NBA news and commentary you need, once a week. Please provide a valid email address. Though Grubauer played the second and third period on Monday night in Columbus — starter Braden Holtby was pulled after he allowed four goals on 16 shots in the first period — Grubauer got the start on Tuesday night, too. Trotz said Grubauer was always scheduled to start the second game of this back-to-back set, so he stuck with that plan. But in the past, when Holtby has had a start cut that short, he has typically started the next game. Trotz has acknowledged Holtby has had a “tough stretch” of late, having lost his past six starts. In Grubauer’s seven appearances this month, he is 4-1-0 with a .932 save percentage and a 1.86 goals against average. Against Ottawa, he was peppered with 20 shots through two periods and confronted by two five-on-three opportunities for the Senators. The Capitals were called for seven minor penalties, yielding just the one power-play goal thanks to an impressive effort by the penalty kill. “We sort of had each other’s back a little bit,” Trotz said. “We took some penalties. Warranted or not, we had to battle through it, and guys battled through it. We weren’t crying about it. We were just sort of trying to deal with it. I like that response.” More on the Capitals: Last time out: Braden Holtby struggles again in lopsided loss at Columbus Blue Jackets Coach John Tortorella apologizes for exchange with Alex Ovechkin Capitals don’t make any moves at ‘expensive’ trade deadline Tuesday’s scores from around the NHL