President Trump, senior administration officials and most members of Congress paid tribute to the Rev. Billy Graham Wednesday at the U.S. Capitol, as the body of the evangelical leader lay in honor in the Rotunda. With the late minister’s family in attendance, Trump, first lady Melania Trump and lawmakers stood silently as Graham’s casket was placed on a raised box called a catafalque that was constructed by the Capitol’s official architect. It is made of wood and draped in a black cloth. Trump, Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) were scheduled to make remarks. From 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. the Rotunda will be open to the public to visit and pay respects. Visitors are asked to enter through the Capitol Visitors Center. Graham’s body will remain in place overnight and leave the Capitol on Thursday morning. The 99-year-old world-renowned evangelical leader died Feb. 21 at his home in Montreat, N.C. Private and national tributes have poured in for more than a week. As his body was driven Saturday from Asheville, N.C., to Charlotte, the motorcade was greeted by thousands of admirers along the route, including many waving Bibles and U.S. flags. On Monday and Tuesday at his family library, thousands of people — including former presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton — came to pay respects. [Billy Graham will have a memorial viewing at the U.S. Capitol. Is that appropriate for a religious leader?] Graham will be buried Friday in a private family service in Charlotte, which Trump is scheduled to attend. The honor in the Rotunda is exceedingly rare. Thirty-two other services have been held for people in the Rotunda, beginning with Kentucky Sen. Henry Clay in 1852 and most recently for the late Sen. Daniel K. Inouye (D-Hawaii) in 2012. powerpost       false endOfArticle true The Health 202 newsletter Your daily guide to the health-care debate. Please provide a valid email address. The remains of unknown soldiers from World War II, the Korean War and Vietnam War have earned the honor, as have 10 U.S. presidents — from Abraham Lincoln to Gerald R. Ford. In 1998, Congress granted use of the Rotunda for two Capitol Police officers killed while on duty to “lie in honor.” Graham becomes just the fourth private citizen — after Pierre Charles L’Enfant, the planner of the District of Columbia; former FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover; and civil rights activist Rosa Parks — to “lie in honor.” He is the first member of the clergy to receive the tribute.  Michelle Boorstein contributed to this report.  Read more at PowerPost