The Weinstein Co., the film studio co-founded by Harvey Weinstein, said Sunday night it will file for bankruptcy after talks to sell the struggling company to an investor group fell apart. “While we recognize that this is an extremely unfortunate outcome for our employees, our creditors and any victims, the Board has no choice,” the board said in a statement to news outlets. The planned bankruptcy filing represents the formal demise of an empire, a once-renowned film studio behind scores of successful Hollywood films, including “The King’s Speech,” “The Iron Lady” and “Django Unchained,” since its founding in 2005. It underscores the extent to which the #MeToo movement has upended the industry. national  morning-mix Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false Morning Mix newsletter Stories that will be the talk of the morning. Please provide a valid email address. The New York-based studio had been in talks with an investor group led by Maria Contreras-Sweet, a former head of the Small Business Administration under President Barack Obama. Contreras-Sweet placed a $500 million bid, backed by billionaire investor Ronald Burkle, among others, to purchase the Weinstein Co., including an assumption of $225 million in debt, according to Variety. She proposed retaining the company’s employees and installing a majority-female board of directors, with Contreras-Sweet as chair. But that deal began to crumble two weeks ago when New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman filed a civil rights lawsuit against Weinstein, his namesake company, and his brother and co-founder, Bob. The lawsuit accused the disgraced Hollywood mogul of “vicious and exploitative” treatment of employees and condemned the film studio for failing to protect his accusers. Weinstein Co., which was already debt-ridden, has been in dire financial straits ever since reports emerged in October in the New York Times and the New Yorker detailing decades of sexual abuse allegations. More than 70 women have since accused Weinstein of sexual misconduct, including rape, and the scandal helped propel women to pour forth with sexual misconduct allegations across multiple industries. Schneiderman filed his lawsuit in large part to intervene in the company’s sales talks. The attorney general lambasted Contreras-Sweet’s plan to make the studio’s then-chief operating officer, David Glasser, the head of the company. Under this appointment, the lawsuit said, employees “would be reporting to some of the same managers . . . who failed to investigate (Harvey Weinstein’s) ongoing misconduct or adequately protect female employees” from him. As part of the deal, he demanded that victims be properly compensated and that the attorney general’s office have oversight over the company. Then, on Feb. 16, the Weinstein Co.’s board of directors announced that it had unanimously voted to fire Glasser for “cause,” without offering further explanation. (Glasser has since threatened to sue the remaining board members, alleging wrongful termination, retaliation, breach of contract and defamation, according to the Hollywood Reporter). On Wednesday, Contreras-Sweet and Burkle met with Schneiderman in his New York office to discuss the terms of the sale in the hopes of reviving it. It now appears those talks were unsuccessful. On Sunday, the board also wrote a letter to Contreras-Sweet and Burkle, saying they had worked “tirelessly to finalize an agreement to present to the Attorney General for his approval,” according to a copy of the letter obtained by the Hollywood Reporter. The letter said Contreras-Sweet failed to deliver on interim funding the Weinstein Co. needed to run its business, and failed to include a promised provision for “ ‘gold standard’ human resources policies.” “We have believed in this Company and in the goals set forth by the Attorney General,” the letter stated. “Based on the events of the past week, however, we must conclude that your plan to buy this company was illusory and would only leave this Company hobbling toward its demise to the detriment of all constituents.” The company plans to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, according to the Wall Street Journal, under which a plan would be formulated for paying off creditors. Weinstein was fired by his namesake company on Oct. 8 and soon after expelled from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the organization behind the Oscars. Police reports against Weinstein have been filed in Los Angeles, Beverly Hills, New York and London. Weinstein has repeatedly denied all accusations of nonconsensual sex. Since the scandal exploded, key partners of Weinstein Co., including Amazon Studios and Netflix, have pulled projects or cut ties with the company. (Amazon’s founder, Jeffrey P. Bezos, owns The Washington Post.) More from Morning Mix: Officials thought the three babies died of SIDS. Three decades later, police dug deeper. While being held hostage, 99-year-old Utah woman scolds suspect for messing up her home