BERLIN — A top German court ruled Tuesday that the country’s towns and cities can ban diesel vehicles in the interests of promoting cleaner air, a decision with vast potential implications for the automotive industry, the car-owning public and the environment. The ruling, by Germany’s highest administrative court, clears the way for local authorities to prohibit millions of cars now on German roadways from entering congested areas where residents choke on air that routinely exceeds legal pollution limits. It does not, however, mandate such bans. The decision was closely watched in a country with an enduring fervor for cars — engineering them, manufacturing them and driving them. But the love affair has been tainted in recent years by scandal. The 2015 revelation that Volkswagen cheated on emissions tests cast a particularly long shadow on an industry that employs some 800,000 Germans. Tuesday’s decision represents another critical blow for carmakers, and for German authorities who had been seeking an excuse not to anger voters by instituting bans. At the same time, it was cheered by environmentalists and public health advocates, who said it gives lawmakers a badly needed tool for improving air quality. “This decision opens the door to clean air,” said Tim Butler, who leads an air quality research group at the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies in Potsdam. “There’s going to be a huge problem in figuring out how to implement and enforce these bans. But ultimately, it’s the most effective way of cleaning the air, so it has to be done.” [The Germans are determined to take all the fun out of fireworks, too] Pollution from nitrogen dioxide — the lung-irritating gas that diesel vehicles emit in abundance — is above the European Union’s legal levels in about 70 German cities and towns. Across the European Union, nitrogen dioxide and fine particle pollution are estimated to contribute to about 400,000 premature deaths a year — including nearly 75,000 in Germany. Butler said that because diesel vehicles are the leading contributor to nitrogen dioxide emissions, banning them in heavily polluted areas makes sense. The Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union, one of Germany’s largest environmental groups, called on cities to become “trailblazers . . . to strike a balance between mobility needs and environmental and health protection.” But such prohibitions are fiercely resisted by much of the German political and business establishment — as well as by car owners who fear their vehicles will plummet in value if they are suddenly banned in certain cities. Tuesday’s decision comes after Environmental Action Germany — a group known by its German abbreviation DUH — sued authorities in two western cities, Stuttgart and Düsseldorf, to force them to impose bans to stay within E.U. pollution limits. The group won at the local level, but city authorities appealed to the nation’s top court, in the eastern city of Leipzig. Tuesday’s decision does not mean that authorities must impose prohibitions; authorities in Stuttgart and Düsseldorf have resisted pressure to crack down and had fought a lower court ruling that ordered them to reduce emissions, including by using bans if necessary. But it adds to already growing pressure for Germany to act more resolutely to clean up its air. “Today is a very big day for clean air in Germany,” Jürgen Resch, head of Environmental Action Germany, said after the ruling was announced. “This smart and daring decision by the Federal Administrative Court shows politicians and the industry which direction we’re heading. The flooding of cities with poisonous diesel exhausts is over. These cars don’t belong in our cities anymore.” The European Commission recently gave the German government a final deadline for coming up with a plan to comply with E.U. clean air rules. Federal authorities responded with proposals that included the possibility of making mass transit free in certain cities, though the wording was vague. Chancellor Angela Merkel — known internationally as “the climate chancellor” for her efforts to rally global leaders around the challenge of rising carbon dioxide emissions — has opposed diesel bans. Her conservative Christian Democratic Union is considered a reliable ally of the car industry, which has favored software upgrades to reduce emissions rather than prohibitions or costly hardware fixes. Successive German governments have incentivized the sale of diesel vehicles, which were long thought to be a better environmental choice than gasoline-powered cars because, although they produce more smog and soot, they emit less heat-trapping carbon. Despite the ruling, the German automobile club ADAC said in a statement that it does not expect cities across Germany to implement sweeping bans on diesel cars. Instead, it advocates hardware fixes and a more “comprehensive solution” for attaining cleaner air. “In our view, the federal government must offer incentives and support to implement alternative measures,” the club stated. Some political parties such as the pro-business Free Democrats have spoken out against bans. In a tweet, party leader Christian Lindner wrote: “Driving bans are the wrong measure. For years politicians and administrators urged citizens and industries to purchase diesel cars. Forbidding their use is simultaneously callous expropriation and breach of promise.” The Volkswagen emissions scandal in 2015 has contributed to falling diesel sales. Before the company’s cheating became known, about half of all vehicles sold in Germany were diesel-powered. By the start of 2018, that figure had fallen to a third. Still, around 15 million vehicles on the roads in Germany are diesel, meaning any change to their status will have a wide-ranging impact. Particularly vulnerable to regulation are older diesel vehicles that are significantly dirtier than the newest models. Across the continent, governments are cracking down on diesel in an effort to improve air quality. The mayors of Paris, Madrid and Athens have all pledged to ban diesel vehicles in their city centers by 2025. France and Britain have said they will mandate a shift away from both diesel and gas-powered vehicles by 2040, pressuring automakers to accelerate their transition to electric models. City center car rules already exist in many European cities, including Berlin, where cars can be driven only in certain zones if they have green badge to indicate low levels of harmful exhaust. Rather than excluding an entire category of cars, the badges ensure that any car emitting high levels of pollutants stays outside the zones. Some carmakers outside Germany have also responded to the push for cleaner air. Volvo, based in Sweden though owned by a Chinese firm, has said that all of its new models will be either electric or hybrid by next year. Italian-American manufacturer Fiat Chrysler, meanwhile, will stop producing diesel passenger vehicles by 2022, according to a Sunday report in the Financial Times. The vaunted German manufacturers, however, have been slow to transition, with their lineups still heavy on diesel and light on hybrid or electric offerings.  Brian Murphy in Washington contributed to this report.   Read more Air pollution is making you worse at your job German carmakers backed studies exposing people, monkeys to car exhaust For Germans, the Volkswagen scandal is a national embarrassment Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news