Want smart analysis of the most important news in your inbox every weekday along with other global reads, interesting ideas and opinions to know? Sign up for the Today's WorldView newsletter.  Last week was not a great one in the annals of North American diplomacy. On Tuesday, President Trump and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto held a fraught phone call. Their conversation inevitably circled around Trump's campaign pledge to force Mexico to pay for a wall along the U.S. southern border, a demand considered deeply offensive by many Mexicans. Ahead of a planned trip to the White House, Peña Nieto was looking for assurances that Trump would not use the occasion to grandstand on the wall. Trump was reportedly unwilling to offer his Mexican counterpart any such guarantees. "Speaking by phone on Tuesday, Peña Nieto and Trump devoted a considerable portion of their roughly 50 minute conversation to the wall, and neither man would compromise his position," wrote my colleagues, citing both U.S. and Mexican diplomatic sources. "One Mexican official said Trump 'lost his temper.' But U.S. officials described him instead as being frustrated and exasperated, saying Trump believed it was unreasonable for Peña Nieto to expect him to back off his crowd-pleasing campaign promise of forcing Mexico to pay for the wall." In the wake of the testy exchange, Peña Nieto's visit was called off. Later that week, Trump regaled a right-wing conference outside Washington with promises to build the wall and crack down on immigration. On the other side of the world, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was enduring a different set of challenges. On an eight-day trip to India, Trudeau's usual charm campaign collapsed — to sometimes hilarious effect. Indians on social media mocked the Trudeau family's insistence on wearing overly formal Indian attire to every occasion. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, meanwhile, trotted out a series of minor officials to deal with Trudeau before finally meeting him on Friday.  But there was genuine tension surrounding the trip. Trudeau and his Liberal Party have an awkward association with elements of the Sikh diaspora that supported the Khalistan movement, a militant Sikh separatist cause that sparked violence and terror attacks in the 1980s. Pro-Khalistan sentiments still exist among some in Canada's Sikh community, which rankles many Indians. The appearance of Jaspal Atwal, a Sikh Canadian extremist convicted for a 1986 assassination attempt on an Indian official, at a Mumbai reception in Trudeau's honor set off a media firestorm that Canadian officials struggled to subdue. Such mistakes overshadowed whatever positive message the Canadian prime minister intended to convey to the world's largest democracy.  "For those who are lukewarm on Trudeau, this will reconfirm their impression that the rock star image hides feet of clay," Vivek Dehejia, a professor at Carleton University in Ottawa, told Washington Post contributor Barkha Dutt, "and that he has been undone by his own cleverness in trying to massage the diaspora vote back home yet appear statesman-like here in India. That facade has crumbled.” The three North American leaders all have some work to do to repair their faltering reputations and agendas."In light of just how poorly this whole thing went, it might be a good time to consider whether Trudeau has flown too close to the sun on the wings of his own celebrity star-power," suggested Vice Canada's Drew Brown. "Even a good shtick gets old if that’s all you’ve got," he added. Meanwhile, Trump is clinging even tighter to the routine that brought him to power, even if it makes diplomatic outreach with Mexico all the more difficult. More than a year into his presidency, Trump has neither received his Mexican counterpart at the White House nor paid a visit to his southern neighbor. “The problem is that President Trump has painted himself, President Peña Nieto and the bilateral relationship into a corner,” Arturo Sarukhan, a former Mexican ambassador to the United States, said to my colleagues. “Even from the get-go, the idea of Mexico paying for the wall was never going to fly. His relationship with Mexico isn’t strategically driven. It’s not even business; it’s personal, driven by motivations and triggers, and that’s a huge problem. It could end up with the U.S. asking itself, ‘Who lost Mexico?’ ” To be sure, Peña Nieto is a diminished president whose ruling party remains saddled with allegations of mismanagement and graft. Trump's talk of the wall exasperates the Mexican public, but also focuses the spotlight on their president — who critics say has been too weak in the face of U.S. bullying. Mexicans will choose a new president in July, and Andrés Manuel López Obrador, the leftist front-runner, made clear his intent to stand up to Trump. "If he insists on building the wall, we’re going to turn to the United Nations to defend the rights of Mexicans,” López Obrador said last week. “I'm conscious of my historic responsibility." Meanwhile, negotiations among the United States, Mexico and Canada over the North American Free Trade Agreement resumed Sunday. Trump reviles NAFTA, as the tripartite pact is known, and wants to radically overhaul it. But several rounds of talks among the three countries have yielded little substantive progress, and early reports suggest it's unlikely that this latest iteration will be any different. Major stumbling blocks to the negotiations still remain, including U.S. demands to significantly change rules on automobile imports as well the imposition of a clause that could automatically kill NAFTA after five years. world  worldviews Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Today's WorldView newsletter What's most important from where the world meets Washington Please provide a valid email address. “They do not come to the table — our counterparts — with a lot of flexibility,” Canada's chief negotiator, Steve Verheul, said of the Trump administration last week. “This is being driven to a large extent from the top, from the administration, and there’s not a lot of flexibility.” Trudeau himself talked tough earlier this month, warning that "Canada is willing to walk away from NAFTA if the United States proposes a bad deal. ... We are not going to take any old deal." At a time of tough optics and even tougher deliberations, there won't be an easy path for any of North America's increasingly embattled leaders. Want smart analysis of the most important news in your inbox every weekday along with other global reads, interesting ideas and opinions to know? Sign up for the Today's WorldView newsletter.