On Jan. 22, 2017, Vice President Pence, two days into that job, was given the honors of swearing in the White House senior staff. Some two dozen incoming staffers raised their right hands and, in front of a beaming President Trump and proud audience, pledged to serve faithfully. With the announcement on Wednesday of the imminent departure of Hope Hicks — then the administration’s director of strategic communications — 13 of the 23 people we identified as having taken that oath are no longer or will soon no longer be working at the White House. The chart below lists staff according to their position for the oath. The exodus began less than a month later, when national security adviser Michael Flynn was forced to resign after it was revealed that he’d lied to Pence about a conversation he’d had with the Russian ambassador. The next month, deputy chief of staff Katie Walsh left. Then, K.T. McFarland, a close ally of Flynn, was asked to go. A pause lasted until the summer, when there was a rush for the doors. Sean Spicer, the press secretary, left after Anthony Scaramucci was hired to be his boss in July. (Scaramucci was gone soon after.) Chief of staff Reince Priebus was replaced later that month. In August, Stephen K. Bannon and George Sifakis announced their departures. politics  politics Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. In December, Omarosa Manigault resigned (according to her) or was kicked out of the White House (according to the White House). Deputy chief of staff Rick Dearborn announced that he was leaving shortly after. And this month, three more announced departures: Reed Cordish, an assistant to the president in charge of technology, Hicks and, most notoriously, Rob Porter, the staff secretary who resigned in disgrace after his ex-wives accused him of abuse. Hicks, unlike many of the others on the above list, had served with Trump since the campaign — even before it. She was one of the longest-serving aides to Trump, surpassed, in that crew, only by Jared Kushner, whose ties to Trump are somewhat different from boss-employee. By the standards of the Trump White House, she lasted a long time, much less by the standard of Trump’s political life in general. This list will be updated as necessary. Hopefully not until at least next week.