The NBA was jolted Sunday by news that longtime agent Dan Fegan was killed in a car accident. The death of the 56-year-old, who had represented the likes of John Wall, Dwight Howard, DeAndre Jordan and DeMarcus Cousins, brought expressions of shock and sadness from players and owners, as well as the league itself. The Colorado State Patrol said Fegan was killed when the SUV he was driving was hit by a bus as it was attempting to cross or merge onto a highway near Aspen, Colo. According to the Aspen Times, Fegan’s five-year-old son and an unidentified 29-year-old woman were airlifted to a Denver hospital with serious injuries. “The NBA family mourns the loss of longtime agent Dan Fegan,” the league said in a statement. “Our thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time.” “You were a great man and a better friend. I knew I liked you since the moment we met,” the Trail Blazers’ Jusuf Nurkic wrote on Twitter. “As I saw you in your bathrobe and slippers I thought, I like this guy. Thank you for everything you’ve done for me.” Fegan was among the NBA’s most powerful agents, one known for aggressive tactics when negotiating on behalf of his clients. In recent years, he reportedly began cutting back on his professional obligations to spend more time with his son, and some prominent players, including Wall, changed representation. Last year, Fegan became embroiled in a messy split with his agency, Independent Sports & Entertainment, which fired him. The two sides filed lawsuits, with Fegan seeking $30 million in damages for fraud and intentional interference with contractual relations. Among the NBA players who shared messages on social media Sunday was the Heat’s Dwyane Wade, who wrote, “RIP. Gone too soon!” Howard wrote, “My heart and prayers go out to the family, especially Dan’s young son who was apparently injured in this accident.”       Fegan “loved his son Braden more than anything in the world,” Cuban said in an email to the Aspen Times. “Arms around his family,” NBA Players Association chief Michele Roberts wrote on Twitter. “Rest In Peace, my friend.” Read more from The Post: Gregg Popovich slams ‘arrogance’ of Laura Ingraham while praising LeBron James Shareef O’Neal, son of Shaquille O’Neal, decommits from Arizona in wake of FBI probe Norman Chad: How can we make the NBA even better? Here are 20 ways. Parkland high school wins Florida hockey state title 11 days after mass shooting