PARKLAND, Fla. — Isaah Jean bowed his head in the dimly lit living room of his family’s apartment and prayed for his classmates. “Help them get through this trying time,” the 14-year-old said, seated on the couch, with his mother kneeling next to him. To God he pleaded: “I want you to protect us.” Jean, a freshman at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, returned to class Wednesday, hobbling on crutches with one foot in a cast. It was two weeks after police say a former student opened fire in the school with an AR-15, killing 14 classmates and three staff members. Jean found himself face-to-face with the gunman as he tried to get into a first-floor classroom. He threw his cellphone at the man and then sprinted from the building, fracturing his foot as he leaped over a stairwell. The massacre was one of the deadliest school shootings in U.S. history. It sparked a nationwide debate over school safety, with survivors calling for dramatic changes to gun laws. On Wednesday, students came back to a place both familiar and surreal, with armed guards, TV trucks and piles of flowers and homemade memorials outside. [Stoneman Douglas reopens Wednesday. On Sandy Hook’s first day back, a pet turtle was the key to healing] Students wearing memorial T-shirts snaked their way through crowds of well-wishers, who passed out carnations and held up signs of support. Hundreds of police officers lined entrances to the school, some giving high-fives to students as they passed. There were support dogs and even ponies painted with “MSD Strong” offering free pony kisses. Despite what happened here, many students said they are eager to get back to class. Bruna Oliveira, a 14-year-old freshman who saw her favorite teacher shot in the chest, spent the last two weeks in counseling. Wednesday morning, she said she was eager to be among students who would understand what she had been through. “I want to see my friends and my teachers,” Bruna said, wearing a maroon Stoneman Douglas High T-shirt and matching sneakers. WPBF-TV showed students walking in, some wearing matching “DOUGLAS STRONG” T-shirts, pausing to rub the furry heads of comfort dogs before going in. CNN reported that law enforcement officers from nearby towns and jurisdictions came to the campus Wednesday morning to show support, as cars full of teachers and staff members arrived, and then school buses full of students rolled in.   Additional armed guards will patrol the campus for the remainder of the school year. The father of one of the victims spoke directly Wednesday morning to President Trump, calling on him to take action to stop the threats being made against survivors who are calling for gun control. In an interview with CNN, Fred Guttenberg, whose 14-year-old son was killed in the attack, spoke students being threatened with violence in recent days, and said he hopes law enforcement agencies are investigating those threats to prevent further trauma. Law enforcement agencies have been criticized for not heeding warnings that the suspected gunman, Nikolas Cruz, was dangerous.   In the wake of the shooting, President Trump called for a ban on bump stocks — devices that allow guns to fire like automatic weapons — and discussed expanding background checks for firearm purchases. He has also proposed training and arming teachers, a suggestion largely rejected by educators. Students continue to demand that lawmakers change gun laws, and several traveled Monday to Washington to speak to members of Congress. Students have pressured companies to end discount programs for NRA members. Across the country, students who are accustomed to regular lockdown drills to prepare for the possibility of a mass shooting have staged walkouts and issued calls for strengthening gun control laws. local  education Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false   Please provide a valid email address. For many students, the last two weeks have been punctuated by vigils, marches, funerals for classmates and teachers, and trips to grief counseling. The last of the victims, Martin Duque, a soccer-loving freshman, was laid to rest Sunday, the same day students returned to campus for a brief orientation. [‘I’m never going to be the same’: Students set to return to shattered Florida school] The structure where the violence unfolded — Building 12 — is ringed by a chain-link fence; Broward County Public Schools is seeking state money to tear it down so that students never have to return. Classes will run only a half day this week, and Principal Ty Thompson said in a tweet to students that they will focus on “emotional readiness and comfort not curriculum.”  [Parkland high school wins Florida hockey state title 11 days after mass shooting] 