TODAY’S DAILY DIGIT A somewhat subjective rating of the day’s weather, on a scale of 0 to 10. 8/10: Morning chill, but serious sunshine is real fine EXPRESS FORECAST Today: Sunny! Highs: 57-62. Tonight: Clouds arrive overnight. Lows: 37-43. Tomorrow: Cloudy. Highs: 58-63. View the current weather at The Washington Post headquarters. FORECAST IN DETAIL After a stubborn string of solid cloud cover, we’re finally breaking free into brilliant sunshine today — but just one day only. Clouds fly back into the area tonight and dominate the rest of our week, with rains arriving Thursday and windy, colder weather Friday as a big coastal storm exits. (We might even see a few snowflakes Friday morning.) The weekend leans cooler to colder, too, but at least it’s dry with some sun chances, especially by Sunday. Listen to the latest forecast:  Get our daily forecasts on your Amazon Alexa device. Click here to find out how. Today (Tuesday): After a crisp morning in the 30s, sunshine warms temperatures quickly, with peak afternoon readings in the more comfortable upper 50s to low 60s. Light winds. Confidence: High Tonight: Skies stay mostly clear into the evening hours, but clouds roll back in overnight, preventing lows from getting quite as cold. Look for a range from the mid-30s in the outer suburbs to the low 40s in the city. Light winds are mainly from the south. Confidence: High Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest updates. For related traffic news, check out Dr. Gridlock. Keep reading for the forecast through the weekend … Tomorrow (Wednesday): Cloudy skies but still relatively warmer temperatures in the upper 50s to low 60s. Winds pick up a bit from the southwest at 5 to 10 mph. Confidence: High Tomorrow night: Clouds with some scattered showers are possible late as lows only dip into the low to mid-40s. Light winds. Confidence: Medium A LOOK AHEAD Thursday is the day to have that handy umbrella nearby, as rain arrives and continues intermittently. Highs only reach up to around 50 or so. Look for lighter intensity rain in the morning and sometimes more moderate levels later in the afternoon and into the evening. Rain could then be moderate or heavy at times Thursday night as the low-pressure area passes by. Temperatures fall through the 40s, with lows near 40 by early Friday morning. Confidence: Low-Medium Friday could see some mixed rain/snow showers early in the morning, but as temperatures lift into the low to mid-40s for highs, any additional activity should be mainly light rain showers. Winds pick up from the north and northeast, getting quite gusty at times and making those 40s feel like 30s. Friday night could still be breezy, as temperatures drift back into the 30s for lows. Confidence: Low-Medium Saturday aims for partly cloudy skies and breezy, with highs in the upper 40s to near 50. Saturday night should finally start to clear out better as lows drop into the 30s. Partly sunny skies on Sunday, with highs trying to break above the 50-degree mark. Confidence: Medium