The former chancellor of D.C. schools will receive six months of pay when he severs ties with the city next week, according to a separation agreement signed Monday. Antwan Wilson was forced to resign from his position leading the public school system last week amid revelations that he violated school lottery system rules when he transferred his daughter to a high-performing school. He has been on administrative leave since his resignation and will formally be out of a job March 7, when his contract is terminated. The separation agreement entitles Wilson, who earned an annual salary of $280,000, to six months of pay. Wilson’s contract was set to expire in January 2019. He received a $14,000 bonus when he signed his two-year employment contract with the city. The contract said Mayor Muriel E. Bowser could terminate the chancellor’s employment without cause. [D.C. Public Schools leader to resign after skirting school assignment rules] The former chancellor must return all city-owned property, including paper and electronic documents, by Friday, according to the separation agreement. He is also prohibited from revealing confidential information that would be illegal to disclose. The six-page document, which Bowser’s office released Tuesday, was signed by attorneys representing Wilson and the mayor’s office. Wilson also signed it. By signing the agreement, Wilson did not admit wrongdoing, according to the terms of the document. The mayor’s office declined to comment. Wilson’s attorney could not be immediately reached Tuesday evening. Wilson’s resignation was swift and unexpected, and sent another jolt through a beleaguered school system already engulfed in a graduation scandal. Deputy Mayor for Education Jennifer Niles resigned days before Wilson following the initial revelations of the lottery-system scandal. local education  Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Must Reads newsletter 5 stories you can't afford to miss, every Saturday. Please provide a valid email address. Amanda Alexander, the school system’s chief of elementary schools, was named interim chancellor. The chancellor’s departure delivers a political blow to Bowser, whose selection of Wilson, an outsider, was one of the most important and high-profile appointments of her tenure. Bowser is up for reelection this year, though she faces no credible challengers so far. “There are too many tough decisions in the coming months to have any distractions,” Bowser said at a news conference last week announcing Wilson’s resignation. “I want to focus on finishing the year for our kids. I am obviously very disappointed, but I am committed.”