TODAY’S DAILY DIGIT A somewhat subjective rating of the day’s weather, on a scale of 0 to 10. 7/10: Continued mild conditions outweigh returning clouds and perhaps a passing shower. EXPRESS FORECAST Today: Partly to mostly cloudy, passing shower? Highs: Upper 50s to low 60s. Tonight: Chance of evening shower, rain possible toward morning. Lows: 40s. Tomorrow: Cloudy with periods of rain likely. Highs: Near 50 to low 50s. View the current weather conditions at The Washington Post headquarters. FORECAST IN DETAIL Clouds make a comeback today after yesterday’s one-day stint of significant sunshine, and showers are set to return as well. We might see a passing shower this afternoon into evening, with periods of rain likely tomorrow. Temperatures continue to be mild today and not too chilly tomorrow. But the winds are cranking by Friday, with damaging wind gusts possible and highs stuck in the 40s. Listen to the latest forecast:  Get our daily forecasts on your Amazon Alexa device. Click here to find out how. Today (Wednesday): Partly to mostly cloudy skies could produce a passing shower during the afternoon. We’re quite pleasant temperature-wise, in the 40s this morning, with afternoon highs in the upper 50s to low 60s. Winds are from the south-southwest around 10 mph. Confidence: Medium-High Tonight: A passing shower remains possible this evening, but that’s about it, until steadier rain likely moves in from the south and west after 5 a.m. or so. Lows drop back to the 40s under overcast skies. Confidence: Medium-High Follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram for the latest updates. For related traffic news, check out Dr. Gridlock. Keep reading for the forecast through the weekend … Tomorrow (Thursday): Periods of rain are likely throughout the day. With the rain and cloudy skies, temperatures struggle to highs around 50 to the low 50s. Winds are light and variable in direction. Confidence: Medium Tomorrow night: Rain should taper during the evening, and we’ll start to dry out overnight. Lows fall into the 40s as winds increase from the west-northwest. Confidence: Medium A LOOK AHEAD Winds crank up early and often Friday into Friday night, so much so that some power outages are possible. We’re talking sustained winds around 25-30 mph from the northwest, with gusts potentially over 55 mph. Friday highs only reach the mid-40s with the chance of a rain or snow shower, followed by Friday night lows in the 30s. Confidence: Medium We’re still windy Saturday, although not quite as extreme, with partly sunny skies and highs reaching the upper 40s to low 50s. Winds diminish Saturday night with lows in the 30s, before a partly to mostly sunny Sunday with highs in the upper 40s to low 50s again. Confidence: Medium