 The Smetana Trio, the leading Czech piano trio since its founding in 1934, had yet to perform in Washington. The Phillips Collection presented the local debut of the group’s current formation on Sunday afternoon. During the renovation of the museum’s Music Room, the Phillips series has relied on alternate venues with varied success. The International Student House of Washington offered a space comparable in size, albeit with less precise climate control. The influence of Brahms came across clearly in Zemlinsky’s early Piano Trio, Op. 3, from 1896, from a time when Zemlinsky and his colleagues were known as “the dangerous Brahmins.” The more emotionally overwrought parts of the piece revealed some rhythmic disparity among the three musicians, with cellist Jan Palenicek often engulfed in overly forceful sound from his two partners. The heat in the room may have accounted for occasional intonation issues, especially from the cello. Just as Zemlinsky was looking backward to Brahms, the young Shostakovich seemed to conjure Tchaikovsky or Rimsky-Korsakov at times in his first piano trio, a single movement inspired by a youthful romantic attachment. Both string players excelled in solo moments on the piece’s aching main theme, with violinist Jiri Vodicka at his best in a prolonged solo on the low strings, sounding at times like a cello, with treble chords cascading down in the piano. Ferocious pianist Jitka Cechova proved the ensemble’s star, nowhere more so than in Mendelssohn’s scintillating first piano trio. In the devilishly fast Scherzo, for example, she dazzled with transparent, perfectly articulated finger work, flying upward through chromatic scales as light as a feather. The more delicate approach at the keyboard in turn created the program’s most delightful ensemble playing, in the lyrical slow movement especially. A final highlight came with the encore, the “Czardas” movement from Czech composer Roman Haas’s “Multicultural Suite,” a thrilling evocation of the Hungarian folk dance.