Add two more candidates to the field of Democrats hoping to fill a pair of new at-large seats on the Prince George’s County Council: Juanita Culbreath-Miller, an outspoken former member of the Washington Suburban Sanitary Commission who played a central role in a controversy over racial preferences; and Julian Lopez, a political novice who says he is running in part because he believes the other candidates are unethical. “I’m very disappointed and angry with Prince George’s County politicians,” said Lopez, 33, who worked in the Army Criminal Investigation Command for seven years and moved to Suitland, Md., last year. “We need a change agent.” The other candidates vying for the at-large seats created by a 2016 ballot initiative include Calvin Hawkins, a longtime aide to County Executive Rushern Baker III who has a criminal record and was accused years ago of sexual harassment; district council member Karen R. Toles (D-Suitland), who has received 46 traffic or parking tickets while using a county car and was once stopped for traveling 105 miles per hour on the Capital Beltway; and district council member Mel Franklin (D-Upper Marlboro), who has crashed two county cars, once while driving under the influence. Former state delegate Gerron S. Levi and Jonathan White, a political newcomer, have also filed paperwork to run. The allegations against Hawkins led to a nearly $150,000 civil judgment against Prince George’s. Although Hawkins disputes the specifics of his accuser’s account, he says his behavior was inappropriate and he takes “full responsibility” for his “poor judgment.” “Over the last decade, I have worked hard to repair my reputation among my colleagues,” he said in a message to supporters after the allegations against him were published by The Washington Post. [Council candidate who is an aide to Baker accused of harassment years ago] The addition of the two at-large seats this year was controversial. Critics — including Levi — said the seats were a way to skirt the intent of the county’s term-limits law, which prohibits council members and the county executive from serving more than two consecutive terms in one position. With the expanded council, a politician may serve two terms as a district lawmaker and then two terms at-large. “I refuse to let them win,” Levi said of Franklin and Toles, both of whom are term-limited in their district seats. “Their whole goal was to extend their terms — I am hoping the people will be a check on that.” About 66 percent of voters, however, were in favor of the council expansion. Supporters said the new seats would make the council less parochial and increase the body’s institutional knowledge. Culbreath-Miller, a board member of the county’s Revenue Authority, said her years of experience in local government qualify her for an at-large seat. But her leadership in the county has at times been polarizing. local md-politics  Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Must Reads newsletter 5 stories you can't afford to miss, every Saturday. Please provide a valid email address. During her tenure at the WSSC, she lead an effort to reject a white-owned company that was the low bidder on a $11.5 million contract, opting instead for a minority-owned firm that had contributed to her political campaigns. Although a state ethics panel found she violated no law, a Maryland judge called Culbreath-Miller’s actions “unspeakable,” “arbitrary” and “capricious.” Culbreath-Miller said she has no regrets from her time at WSSC. “I was not afraid to say what I thought,” she said.