LONDON — The “Beast from the East” has arrived. Sweeping in from Siberia, the monster winter storm has brought rare snow to Rome and bitter winds will cause some parts of Britain to feel colder than the Arctic Circle this week. Temperatures are expected to plummet to as low as 5 degrees (minus 15 Celsius) in parts of Britain, or maybe more appropriately Brrrritain. The cold snap is thought to be the most severe cold weather in the past five years. “Coldest end to Feb/start to March in years for Europe as Siberian air brings a week of bitter air, wind and disruptive snow” tweeted meteorologist Mark Vogan on Monday. The Met office, Britain's official weather service, issued a yellow “be aware” warning on Monday detailing ice and heavy snow showers. “Power cuts may also occur and other services, such as mobile phones, may be affected.” the statement read. Amber warnings (one below the highest level of  'red alert') are in place for Tuesday and Wednesday, advising people to be prepared for travel disruption and blizzard-like conditions through Friday. Transport for London advised commuters to check their route before traveling as overground and underground lines may be disrupted. SouthEastern Rail advised commuters across the country to complete their journeys by 6 p.m. Monday to avoid heavy snowfall and possible delays. It wasn't long before #BeastFromTheEast began trending on Twitter in Britain. While some people willed the chilly beast back to where it came from, others couldn't resist responding to the severe weather with a dose of British sarcasm. “Had 8 flakes of snow so I'm off to Tesco to buy 52 loaves of bread and 95 pints of milk,” tweeted one user. “I might have taken the warnings to stock up before we're hit by the #BeastFromTheEast a little too seriously. I reckon my next grocery shop will be some time in mid-April,” tweeted another who had perhaps taken precautions a little too far. Throughout the day, social media users shared tips on how to beat the big chill, with one of the most common suggestions being: “Put the kettle on.” In Italy,  the heavy snowfall forced schools to close. Flights to and from Ciampino Airport near Rome were canceled as police advised residents to stay at home if possible. world  worldviews Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false Today's WorldView newsletter What's most important from where the world meets Washington Please provide a valid email address. Despite the warnings, some couldn't resist a bit of fun and ventured out to make the most of Rome's heaviest snowfall in six years. Residents, priests and tourists were photographed wearing warm clothes and throwing snowballs at each other outside the Vatican. Over the weekend, temperatures in Moscow plummeted to minus 4 (minus 20 Celsius), with Sunday night reported as the coldest night of Russian winter so far. The most severe cold is forecast to hit Eastern Europe and Scandinavia over the next five days.