ATLANTA — The raging debate over the future of the Democratic Party was on vivid display in this Southern metropolis over the weekend. Stacey Abrams, vying to become the country’s first black female governor, was surrounded by leaders of groups representing women, labor and the LGBT community as she revved up a crowd of campaign volunteers and predicted that a rising coalition of minorities and liberal whites “is going to turn the state of Georgia, and the nation, blue again.” A short time later, Stacey Evans, also seeking the Democratic nomination for governor, stood in a neighborhood cafe in another part of the city and said that Abrams’s strategy was “to huddle in a corner with folks who already identify as Democrats.” “Getting Democrats out to vote alone is not going to win this election,” Evans, who is white, told a small gathering of voters. Whoever wins the nationally watched Georgia primary on Tuesday will make history as the first female gubernatorial nominee from a major party in Georgia. Either candidate will probably face stiff odds in the November general election against the Republican nominee in this reliably conservative state. Nonetheless, the contrasting approaches of Abrams, 44, a former minority leader of the Georgia General Assembly, and Evans, 40, also a former state legislator, reflect a broader dilemma confronting Democrats nationwide as they struggle to forge a winning strategy in states and congressional districts that embraced Donald Trump two years ago. Many party leaders have argued that Democratic candidates will succeed in these places only if they appeal to working-class white voters and others who were drawn to Trump. But others, including several potential Democratic presidential candidates, have said that Democrats’ path to victory relies on igniting a newly muscular coalition of African Americans, Hispanics, Asian Americans, young people and others on the left — many of whom did not vote in 2016. Advocates of the liberal coalition strategy have seized on Abrams’s candidacy as a potentially powerful example. Two would-be 2020 White House contenders, Sens. Cory Booker of New Jersey and Kamala D. Harris of California, have visited the state in recent months to campaign for Abrams. Last week, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders (I) endorsed her, and, over the weekend, Valerie Jarrett, former senior adviser to President Barack Obama, introduced her at the get-out-the-vote rally. Supporters of the Abrams approach point to last year’s upset win by Democrat Doug Jones in the Senate race in neighboring Alabama, which was fueled in part by high turnout among that state’s large African American electorate, to say that similar black turnout in Georgia could make a difference in November. African Americans make up nearly one-fourth of the electorate in Alabama, compared with about 30 percent in Georgia. “This state is so much more diverse than most people think, and Democratic voters have great numbers here,” Booker said during a recent visit to Georgia. “I think this is going to be one of the states that’s going to wake up the party as well as the nation about what’s possible when you have great candidates like Stacey Abrams and engaged electorates.” Liberal groups have dispatched volunteers into the state to help Abrams and have organized text message campaigns and distributed fliers via mail and in person to targeted voters. [Georgia Democrat aims to be nation’s first female African American governor] After Saturday’s rally, Abrams told reporters that groups such as Emily’s List, which backs Democratic female candidates, the pro-abortion-rights group NARAL, the pro-gay-rights group Georgia Equality and the Georgia AFL-CIO “have come together to help push our vision for what the electorate can look like.” Abrams has been working on building this coalition since 2014, when she launched a voter outreach campaign called the New Georgia Project. The group’s mission is to engage an estimated 700,000 unregistered Georgia voters, particularly young people, women and minorities. She no longer has an official role with the group but said it had turned in more than 200,000 new voter registration forms to state elections officials. The website for the New Georgia Project says it was able to add roughly 69,000 new voters to the rolls. Evans has accused Abrams of overstating the impact of her work at the voter group. “When you look at the turnout, even in this primary, only 5,000 new voters showed up to early-vote,” Evans said in an interview after her Saturday campaign stop. “So where are these voters that she was worked to motivate to educate and to get out to vote?” While Georgia has grown more diverse and many Democrats have long predicted it would emerge as a presidential battleground, recent history suggests that the party remains an underdog here. Trump won the state by roughly five percentage points. Four years ago, two Democrats failed to win statewide races despite their ties to former political giants. Jason Carter, grandson of former president Jimmy Carter, and Michelle Nunn, daughter of the former long-serving senator Sam Nunn, each lost by about eight points. Tuesday’s primary elections will also determine the Republican nominee who will face Abrams or Evans in November. With GOP Gov. Nathan Deal leaving office after two terms, seven Republicans, all white men, are vying for the party’s nomination in a contest that has been fought largely over who would be stronger on protecting the Second Amendment and combating illegal immigration. Evans and Abrams have jousted at times over a more local matter — a popular state-run college scholarship program that was scaled back several years ago during the nationwide economic downturn. Evans has criticized Abrams for cutting a deal with Republicans that “gutted” the program. Abrams has said she compromised to save the program from being eliminated. But the heart of the Abrams-Evans divide largely has come down to a question of their competing visions for the future of the party. Liberal leaders, including Abrams, point to past election results to say that there were enough untapped Democratic voters to win those races. Evans, in Saturday’s interview, disagreed. She said Carter and Nunn lost not because they ignored Democratic voters but because they ran on a message that was “very middle of the road” and failed to convince swing voters. Abrams “says we need to stop spending time in the suburbs talking to swing voters,” Evans said. “I don’t think you can win in a state like Georgia being so exclusionary. I don’t want to demonize anyone for their past choices. If you feel like you made a mistake and want to come vote for a Democrat . . . I think there’s plenty of room for folks to come back.” Abrams campaign manager Lauren Groh-Wargo said Evans is misrepresenting their strategy. “We’re not building a coalition to the exclusion of anybody, but to win in November, we have to inspire and invest in an historic Democratic mobilization that includes diverse communities, while running a campaign that brings in disaffected and moderate and anti-Trump voters along the way,” she said. If Abrams wins Tuesday, she will have done so in part because of the successful courtship of first-time voters such as Emma White. The high school senior, who is Asian American, said she was moved to register a few months ago after hearing Abrams speak at a church and is excited about the prospect of a black woman as governor. White voted early on Friday, then tweeted at Abrams: “Thrilled to officially say I voted in my first election!” When Abrams tweeted back that she was “honored to have earned your first vote,” White screamed — much to the surprise of her fellow debate team members who were holding a practice at the time. “People looked at me like, ‘Are you okay?’ I’m like, ‘No, I’m not okay, I’m excited!” Robert Costa contributed to this report.