A college-bound teen applying for financial aid found out she had a long — and appalling — credit history created by crooks who had stolen her Social Security number when she was a baby. According to the nonprofit Identity Theft Resource Center, it took so long for the teen to clear her name that she never caught up to her peers in college. She is far from alone. Last year, nearly 14,000 identity theft cases reported to the Federal Trade Commission involved people 19 and younger. Credit reporting agency Experian estimates a quarter of kids will be victims of identity fraud or theft before they turn 18. “Child identity theft is something all parents need to be alert for,” says Eva Velasquez, president of the Identity Theft Resource Center. “Thieves target children because they have clean credit reports where they can take advantage of the credentials without it going noticed for a long period of time.” So where do the bad guys obtain your child’s personal information? Data breaches are the primary method; 2017 was a record year for stolen financial information, according to Gemalto, a digital security firm that tracks breaches. Anywhere you provide your child’s Social Security number — doctor’s offices, hospitals, schools, camps, sports leagues and so on — creates a potential point of vulnerability. On a smaller scale, some identity thieves harvest this data by committing burglaries of homes or cars, or even snatching purses. And some child identity theft is committed by family members or close associates with access to a child’s information. Foster children are at particular risk, because so many adults are involved in their lives. [Want a safe nursery? Here are the latest recommendations.] Once identity thieves have a child’s Social Security number, the Internet makes it easy to piece together the rest of the information required to open bank or credit accounts. A child’s date of birth, city of birth, mother’s maiden name, etc., can often be found simply by scanning Facebook. Identities complete with all of these details, called “Fullz” on the dark web, a shadowy network where criminals sell guns, child porn and identities — go for far more than adult identities. With fake identity in hand, thieves can apply for credit cards, car loans and mortgages, rent apartments, set up utilities, have surgery or obtain government benefits. By the time the child or parents catch on, the thieves may have generated so much havoc that the victim is unable to obtain credit for years. Here are several steps you can take to try to keep your child’s financial identity from being stolen in the first place. Even if you are vigilant, however, your child could be a victim of identity theft. Here are red flags: If you discover a problem, it’s important to strike back against child identity theft swiftly and completely. Here are the steps to take, according to the Federal Trade Commission. Weekly consumer columnist Elisabeth Leamy is a 13-time Emmy winner, a 25-year consumer advocate for programs such as “Good Morning America” and host of the podcast “Easy Money.” Connect with her at leamy.com and follow her @ElisabethLeamy. Follow On Parenting on Facebook for more essays, news and updates. You can sign up here for our weekly newsletter. We tweet @On Parenting and have a Facebook discussion page about parenting and working. Join us. You might also be interested in: Planning to borrow for college? Then it’s time to clean up your credit. How to find flame-resistant pajamas for kids, without toxic chemicals The 5 worst car seat mistakes parents are making