Republicans eager to claim Democratic Senate seats in states won by President Trump watched closely as voters cast primary ballots on Tuesday in Indiana, Ohio and West Virginia. Battling anti-establishment fervor that threatened their position ahead of November’s midterm elections, GOP leaders were on edge about the race in West Virginia, where support for divisive former coal baron Don Blankenship has surged. The party brass was more upbeat about likely results in Ohio and Indiana, where polls in some counties closed at 6 p.m. Eastern time. [Primary results in West Virginia, Indiana, North Carolina and Ohio] President Trump has urged voters not to support Blankenship. The candidate retorted by describing himself as “Trumpier than Trump.” Blankenship, who was convicted of mine safety violations, during his campaign has challenged Republican leaders, including launching racially charged attacks on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s (R-Ky.) family. His rise marks Republicans’ latest problem with polarizing candidates who will make it harder for them to retain their narrow Senate majority in November’s elections. In addition to West Virginia, voters in Ohio, Indiana and North Carolina voters went to the polls Tuesday to pick nominees for federal and state offices. The primaries kicked off a busy month of roughly a dozen contests that will establish congressional matchups for November and shape expectations as the parties battle for control of the House and Senate. Indiana polls close at 6 p.m. local time, but Indiana is split between Eastern time and Central time, meaning some polls will remain open for another hour. Polls will close at 7:30 p.m. Eastern time in the other three states. [Trump urges West Virginia GOP voters to reject Blankenship in favor of more mainstream GOP hopefuls] On Tuesday afternoon, Senate Republican leaders declined to speculate publicly about the race in West Virginia. Leaders have started considering cutting ties with Blankenship if he wins out of concern he could drag down other candidates, according to two Republicans who spoke about private deliberations on the condition of anonymity. Asked whether Blankenship’s ads are racist, McConnell declined to say. “We’re going to find out what happens in West Virginia tonight, and I may have more to say about that tomorrow,” McConnell told reporters. He would not say whether Senate Republican leaders would support Blankenship if he wins the nomination. “We will move forward after we have the results this evening, and I can’t probably predict for you what that’s going to look like,” said Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.), one of McConnell’s top deputies. Blankenship is known in the state for spending a year in jail after the 2010 explosion at his Upper Big Branch Mine that killed 29 workers. Mary Logsdon, a teacher from Charleston, W.Va., would not say who she voted for in the primary — only that it was not Blankenship. “I remember that the coal miners referred to him as ‘the anti-Christ,’” she said. “So it started decades ago, before the disaster, before the attempted coverups, before the lies. He had already started a reputation with me.” Robert Ehman, another Charleston resident, said he cast his ballot for Blankenship because he’s a “fresh face.” “I think he got set up in all that business about the jailing,” Ehman said, laughing. Indiana is choosing a Republican Senate nominee. There, the ascendant candidate is Mike Braun, the founder of a warehouse and distribution company who voted in the 2012 Democratic primary. Like Blankenship, he is running against two more well-established GOP incumbents — Reps. Todd Rokita and Luke Messer — who have spent much of the campaign attacking each other, as they calculated the outsider would face a traditional ceiling of support. Indiana and West Virginia are two of the Republican Party’s best pickup opportunities in the battle for the Senate in November, as the GOP tries to expand on its slim 51-to-49 majority. Democratic Sens. Joe Donnelly (Ind.) and Joe Manchin III (W.Va.) are running for reelection in states that voted overwhelmingly for Trump. Republicans fear that if Blankenship wins the nomination, their chances of defeating Manchin will be dashed. And some are prepared to disavow him like they did with Roy Moore in Alabama last year, after The Washington Post reported on accusations that the Republican Senate contender had inappropriate sexual contact with teenage girls when he was in his 30s. A Blankenship victory would also test Republicans’ ability to stay unified in the general election. Trump campaigned for Moore last year, even after Senate GOP leaders cut ties with him. “We’re starting to think through the various scenarios,” said Sen. John Thune (S.D.), the third-ranking Republican senator, speaking of West Virginia. Asked what happens if Blankenship wins, Thune said, “I don’t know. But let’s just hope and pray that that doesn’t happen.” [Analysis: Three things to watch in Tuesday’s primaries] A closely watched Democratic gubernatorial primary is playing out in Ohio, where former congressman Dennis Kucinich is running against Richard Cordray, the former head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Polls suggest a Cordray win. Christopher Dieck, a 66-year-old from Cleveland’s west side, cast his ballot for Kucinich. “I voted for Dennis because he actually has the courage to take a stand on a bunch of issues rather than pussy foot around trying to play both sides,” Dieck said. Robert Halpin, 57, said he finally decided on Cordray because Kucinich took a $20,000 speaking fee last year from a group sympathetic to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Kucinich said last month he plans to return the payment. “I think [Cordray’s] got a better chance” of winning, Halpin said. Also in Ohio, Republicans have grown increasingly concerned about the primary for the open House seat outside Columbus, which was vacated by a moderate Republican who left for the private sector. It has turned into a proxy war between the House Freedom Caucus, which backs business executive Melanie Leneghan, and the moderate Main Street Partnership, which backs state Sen. Troy Balderson. In West Virginia, Blankenship has called McConnell “Cocaine Mitch” in campaign ads, a reference to a drug-smuggling bust on a ship owned by his father-in-law’s family, and attacked the “China family” of the Kentucky Republican’s wife, Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao. He has also used the words “Negro” and “China people,” while also arguing that he was not making racially motivated appeals. Party leaders in Washington prefer Blankenship’s rivals, state Attorney General Patrick Morrisey and Rep. Evan Jenkins. A group called Mountain Families PAC, which was founded by a Republican lawyer with ties to McConnell, used a television campaign to attack Blankenship. Read more at PowerPost Afi Scruggs contributed from Cleveland. Daniel Heyman contributed from Charleston, W.Va.