CHICAGO — Brian Bowen Jr. pump-faked, forcing the defender on him to fly out of the way, and leaned into the paint to finish the play. But his shot attempt struck the back of the rim, then tapped the front before falling out and into the hands of an opponent. The 19-year-old clapped his hands together in frustration, shook his head and jogged down the court, which was surrounded by coaches and executives at the NBA draft combine in Chicago last week. Bowen did not have much success proving himself among a crowd of 65 other NBA hopefuls. It was only the continuation of a trying year. Seven months ago, Bowen — “Tugs” to family and friends, helping differentiate from his father, Brian Bowen Sr. — was settling into his freshman year at Louisville. His parents had moved with their only child from Saginaw, Mich., to watch their son play for coach Rick Pitino, who viewed the 6-foot-7 small forward as perhaps the missing piece to another Final Four run. But then federal prosecutors and top FBI officials last September announced the arrests of 10 men as part of an ongoing probe into corruption in college basketball, and criminal complaints alleged Bowen’s decision to attend Louisville had come with a price tag. According to federal prosecutors, Christian Dawkins, a family friend who coached Bowen in summer basketball, negotiated a $100,000 deal with Adidas executive Jim Gatto to ensure Bowen attended the Adidas-sponsored school. Bowen’s father, prosecutors alleged, had collected $19,500 of the first $25,000 payment, and more installments were scheduled when FBI agents arrested Dawkins, Gatto and others in late September. The allegations outlined in court documents triggered a series of events that have left Bowen’s basketball career in limbo. He wants to play college basketball, but it’s unclear if the NCAA will ever let him. [Before this hoops recruit chose Indiana, Adidas made sure he stayed under its tent] Louisville officials told him his basketball career there was over, according to his lawyer, so he transferred to South Carolina and sat out the season, hoping the NCAA would clear him to play next season. South Carolina has filed paperwork to clear up Bowen’s eligibility moving forward, and the NCAA has yet to respond. The NCAA did not respond to a request to comment Monday. Now Bowen faces a May 30 deadline to make a decision — declare for the draft and officially end his college career, or stay in South Carolina hoping the NCAA will clear him — hinging on answers he does not have. There is no guarantee he will be selected in the two-round NBA draft, especially after a shaky combine performance. There is also no guarantee he has a functioning college basketball career to return to. “This is my career on the line, honestly,” Bowen said to a crowd of reporters Thursday, his eyes trailing to the table in front of him, his hands bouncing on his knees as he was peppered with questions about what happened at Louisville and what might happen next. “I’ve been given the minimal,” Bowen said of what he has heard from the NCAA regarding next season. “We’re really just on their time.” According to Bowen’s lawyer, Jason Setchen, South Carolina is asking the NCAA for a waiver that would allow Bowen to play immediately without sitting out a full year as most Division I transfers do and also to count this past season essentially as “time served” toward any suspension deemed appropriate. As it stands now, Bowen will not be eligible to suit up for South Carolina until January 2019 (a year after transferring to the program last January) and any additional suspension would start then. Auburn forward Danjel Purifoy, another player wrapped up in the FBI investigation, was suspended this past year and 30 percent of next season. If Bowen were handed a similar suspension, and he was not eligible until January of 2019 even without it, he potentially would be sitting out until the first few weeks of 2020. “It certainly ruined his college basketball career,” Setchen said of Bowen having to sit out this past year. “We’re still fighting; we’re still trying to make something happen. He can’t be out of basketball for two years.” Setchen alleges that Bowen had no knowledge of the $100,000 payment arranged by Dawkins. The knowledge of Bowen’s father, Brian Bowen Sr., is not detailed in court documents except that on July 13, Bowen Sr. spoke to Dawkins about driving to New Jersey in a rental car to meet a financial advisor who had $19,500 for him. (Adidas had paid $25,000 as part of four installments to get Bowen to Louisville, federal prosecutors allege. Court documents do not explain what happened with the other $5,500.). Bowen Sr.’s attorney, Anthony Ricco, confirmed in a brief interview with the Post that federal prosecutors in New York City were considering charging his client with a crime for his role in this scheme. Bowen Sr., a retired police officer, is currently working as an Uber driver to make ends meet for his family. He also is training Brian, he and his wife’s only child, during a pre-draft process that follows a tough seven months. “It’s the biggest thing I’ve ever been through in my life,” Bowen Jr. said Thursday at the combine. “They took the game away from me that I truly love. I had to realize how much passion I do have for the game.” [The FBI also probed payments to college athletes in the ’80s. It didn’t end well.] Bowen was easy to spot at the combine — he has a wide streak of blonde hair atop his head and a matching ponytail in the back — and the rust on his game was apparent in two five-on-five scrimmages with top college basketball players. He had not played in a competitive game since his high school career ended, and struggled to flash the scoring ability that made him a blue-chip recruit. Bowen said last week that he had worked out for the Celtics, Nets, Hawks, Spurs and Jazz prior to the combine. Several league executives told the Post that Bowen did not help his draft stock at the combine. “His situation is unfortunate in a lot of ways,” said an NBA scout who watched Bowen in Chicago. “He is probably not fully ready to be an NBA player and hasn’t had the chance to prove himself, while most of the guys he played against at the combine have at least some college tape to show. Bowen doesn’t. But he may have to test his luck in the draft either way with what’s going on with the NCAA.” After scrimmaging Thursday, and making two of five shots while committing six turnovers, Bowen addressed reporters for 14 minutes. He was asked where he was when news of the FBI investigation broke (in class at Louisville), how he found out about his involvement (on television) and if he knew about the $100,000 deal between Dawkins and Gatto (“I really can’t talk about that,” Bowen said. “The FBI case is still ongoing.”). He soon pushed himself out of the interview chair and walked back into the gym, full of prospects playing without so much uncertainty. “Whether you believe Brian Bowen Jr.’s story or not, in terms of how people feel about what happened,” Setchen said in an interview before the combine, “all of those people would agree that he should be afforded due process and be given an opportunity to know what his penalty is and make an informed decision.” Tim Bontemps contributed reporting from Chicago.