A bizarre moment happened Sunday during the Houston Rockets’ victory over the Utah Jazz in Game 4 of their Western Conference semifinal series. During the third quarter, C.J. Paul – the brother of Rockets superstar Chris Paul – was briefly escorted away from his seat on the baseline closest to Houston’s bench inside Vivint Smart Home Arena in Salt Lake City. When it happened, Chris Paul was out of the game, and both he and Rockets Coach Mike D’Antoni went over to security to attempt to prevent C.J. from being taken out of the arena. A short time later, C.J. had returned to his seat after meeting with security, and he remained there for the rest of the game. “No, not really,” D’Antoni said when asked if he’d gotten any clarity on what happened. “We were all getting a little … anxious, or whatever. “The whole game was rough. It was a tough game. You’ve got to put on a helmet and shoulder pads and go out and play, and our guys did.” Arena security said of the incident that a Rockets fan was warned for use of inappropriate language directed at an official. [James Harden, Chris Paul have Rockets on brink of West finals] C.J. Paul spoke to multiple reporters after the game and said that he had told arena security that it was, in fact, the fan next to him that had been berating referee James Williams – who, incidentally, once refereed C.J. Paul’s games when he was playing college basketball at the University of South Carolina Upstate. Arena security later confirmed that was what C.J. Paul told them. When he was asked about it at his postgame press conference, Chris Paul said that no matter what happened, he wasn’t going to allow his brother to be removed from the arena. “I don’t know,” he said, when asked what had happened. “I saw them trying to pull my brother out. “That’s out. That’s out. There might not be many playoff games I’ve played in, but he’s been at all of them. That’s out.” This wasn’t the first time recently that there had been some kind of drama surrounding fan behavior at a Jazz game. Russell Westbrook got into confrontations with Jazz fans both at halftime and the conclusion of Game 6 of Oklahoma City’s season-ending loss to the Jazz here in Salt Lake City, and then had a lot to say about it afterward. [Russell Westbrook irked by Utah fans as Jazz eliminates his Thunder] “I don’t confront fans – fans confront me,” Westbrook said after that game. “Here in Utah, man, a lot of disrespectful, vulgar things are said to the players. I think these fans, man, it’s truly disrespectful. Talk about your families, your kids, and it’s just a disrespect to the game. And I think it’s something that needs to be brought up. “I’m tired of going out and playing and letting fans say what the hell they want to say, I’m not with that. If I was on the street, they wouldn’t just come up to me and say anything crazy, because I don’t play that [expletive]. So I just think it’s disrespectful when they get the chance to do whatever they want to do. Needs to be put to a stop, especially here in Utah.” Read more on the NBA: LeBron’s ‘other Cavaliers’ roasted by SNL Bucks will make Becky Hammon first woman to interview for NBA head coaching job Donovan Mitchell on dunk vs. Rockets: ‘I just happened to be up there’ Dragging these flawed Cavs to the NBA Finals would be LeBron James’s most remarkable feat Charles Barkley apologizes for saying he wanted to punch Draymond Green in the face Steph Curry comes off bench to vault Warriors to 2-0 lead; Raptors lost a game they had to win Global Ambassador starts war! Drake and Kendrick Perkins skirmish in Toronto! NBA Podcast: USA Today’s Sam Amick on the West playoffs, what’s next for Paul George and Portland Why is there a snake on the Philadelphia 76ers’ court?