The bride, a fiery redhead with an infectious smile, wore a full-skirted white gown. The groom, a bespectacled, lanky 28-year-old sporting a ponytail, donned a classic black tuxedo. They said “I do” in front of family, friends, reporters, photographers, TV crews and about 2,000 shoppers in the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn. It was a love story between two complete strangers that attracted global attention, launching David Weinlick and Elizabeth “Bethy” Runze into sudden fame. He was the man who had allowed his friends and family to pick his wife, and she was the woman who got the most votes, beating out more than 20 other hopefuls. While many doubted the Bachelor-esque marriage would last, it spanned nearly two decades, only to be cut short when David, diagnosed with terminal colon cancer last year, died on Sunday at the age of 48 with his wife at his side. “He was a great husband and family man,” Bethy told the St. Paul Pioneer Press. “He had a great love for life and people. We laughed a lot. We still did, right up until the end.” The love story began when David was a 28-year-old University of Minnesota anthropology student dealing with people constantly asking when he planned to get married. “One night people were talking about what they expected out of life … and I just said, ‘Oh I’m going to get married on June 13, 1998,’ and I just said that,” he recalled in an interview last year. As the date neared, David was still without a woman to marry. His longtime friend, Steve Fletcher, suggested an unusual approach: model the search for a wife and the wedding itself after a political convention. Candidates vying to be his wife would have the chance to give speeches and interact with guests, who would then cast votes. The woman with the most votes would be David’s bride. “I was the instigator and Dave said, ‘Let’s do it,'” Fletcher told KSTP-TV on Tuesday. They sent out news releases. They made a TV commercial and placed an ad in the Minnesota Daily. And the “Campaign to Elect a Mrs. David Weinlick” was underway. Bethy Runze, a 28-year-old pharmacy student at the University of Minnesota, was taking a break from final exams when she saw a story about David’s campaign in the Minnesota Daily. She immediately picked up the phone and called her mother. Her mother responded:“’Well honey, it might be the great love story of your life,’” Bethy recalled in an interview last year. “I was like, ‘Okay, I’m in.’” On that Saturday morning, June 13, Bethy arrived at the Mall of America with her family. There, along with the other candidates, Bethy campaigned, winning over the wedding guests with her willingness to work on a relationship, KSTP-TV reported. “I think it’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,” Bethy said before her election, according to the St. Paul Pioneer Press. “I think it’s a fabulous idea. I believe in it. I think it will work. All the building of the relationship will come after the marriage.” Shortly after the votes were tallied, the couple wed in the massive rotunda of the mall. As they kissed, hundreds of maroon and silver balloons fell around them, in the style of a political convention, and thousands cheered. “She’s very serious about it,” Annette Runze, Bethy’s mother, told the Associated Press at the time. “She’s very committed to the idea and so is he. They’ll probably be married 67 years.” Following their wedding, the Weinlicks appeared on NBC’s “Today Show” and “Oprah,” the Star Tribune reported. They were even asked to be consultants for “The Bachelor,” then just a new reality dating show. The show’s premise, women competing against each other to win a proposal, was similar to the “democratic wedding” that brought David and Bethy together. “We inspired those shows, but they missed the mark,” Bethy told the Star Tribune. “We didn’t want to attach our name to something where people sit around in hot tubs and kiss another person every night.” The Weinlicks shared a normal life and a loving marriage. Bethy was a nurse and David worked for Minnesota’s Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party, according to KSTP. The couple had four children. It seemed like the Weinlicks were well on their way to fulfilling Annette Runze’s prediction that they would be married for 67 years. In March of last year, however, David was diagnosed with Stage IV colon cancer and given a year to live, the Star Tribune reported. “We’re still coming to terms with the fact that the whole life we had planned together isn’t going to happen,” Bethy said at the time. “That is impossible to get your head around.” In August, the couple returned to the place their love story began. In the main rotunda of the Mall of America, they renewed their vows. “I feel like in a way if we had done it somewhere else it wouldn’t have had the same meaning,” Bethy said in a video, fighting back tears. “It was like reliving that day and what it’s been for 19 years and how happy we’ve been for 19 years. And also how sad I am that I’m not going to get 19 more.” David expressed gratitude. “Thank you everybody, in case I forget, just thanks,” he said. “Honestly, it’s been a good life, it’s been a great ride. It’s crappy to get off, but every ride ends at some point.” But, even given their short time together, Bethy told the Star Tribune she would not hesitate to do it all over again. “If someone would have told me on the day of the wedding that you’re going to marry this stranger and you’re going to have this awesome relationship and fantastic love but it’s going to end when he’s 48, do you still want to do it? I’d say yeah,” she said. “I ended up with the greatest love story of my life.”