The Boston Celtics have a chance to close out the Philadelphia 76ers on their home court tonight. Can the Sixers again stave off elimination? We will have live analysis throughout the game, and join the discussion in the comments. Catch up on Tuesday night’s games here. Schedule and results | Pregame reading | Comments section Q&A   The goal for the Philadelphia 76ers Wednesday night is simple. Down three games to one in their best-of-seven series with the Boston Celtics, the Sixers need another win to try to keep their season alive. Unlike most teams in this situation, though, Philadelphia has the capability to pull this off. Games 2 and 3 of this series were both toss-ups that went in Boston’s favor, and the Sixers started to look like a different team in Game 4. Coach Brett Brown told reporters in Boston on Wednesday morning that he hopes his team is calm – a real worry for a young group like this, with arguably the team’s four best players (Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Dario Saric and Robert Covington) all in their first postseason. “I don’t want too high a level of anxiety,” Brown said. “I don’t think that helps anybody think or play. “I feel like we have a game plan we are confident in, we have a rotation we believe in, and they have the spirit, still, to move this thing forward. “We want to go back to Philadelphia.” Doing so for Game 6 Friday night will require the Sixers to do something no team has done yet: beating the Celtics in Boston. The Celtics are now 5 for 5 in home games in these playoffs. If that doesn’t change, the Sixers season will be over in a few hours.   Schedule:   Additional reading: We’ve been waiting for Warriors-Rockets for what feels like forever Will DeMarcus Cousins be back with the New Orleans Pelicans? After another demolition at the hands of the Cavaliers, what’s next for the Raptors? The day Donovan Mitchell won over the Jazz ‘A hood fairy tale’: Inside Meek Mill’s deep connection to the 76ers How the Cavs and Celtics pushed favored opponents to the brink Draymond Green shrugs off death threat, says he hopes comedian gets ‘help that he needs’ David Fizdale gives the Knicks a chance to start over. They need to give him time. ‘The ref was crazy’: Chris Paul’s brother was nearly ejected from Rockets game LeBron’s ‘other Cavaliers’ roasted by SNL Bucks will make Becky Hammon first woman to interview for NBA head coaching job Donovan Mitchell on dunk vs. Rockets: ‘I just happened to be up there’ Dragging these flawed Cavs to the NBA Finals would be LeBron James’s most remarkable feat Charles Barkley apologizes for saying he wanted to punch Draymond Green in the face Why is there a snake on the Philadelphia 76ers’ court? Impressive as it was, the Pacers’ Victor Oladipo isn’t satisfied with his breakout season John Wall wants the Wizards to overhaul their roster. They likely won’t be able to. The Miami Heat bet big on Hassan Whiteside. It appears they made a mistake. Now what? The one-and-done rule is on the way out — because of NBA money, not NCAA morals It feels like the end of an era for the San Antonio Spurs After first-round sweep, Blazers’ next steps could include trading away their stars ‘All my best games I was medicated’: Matt Barnes on his game-day use of marijuana Adam Silver: One of the WNBA’s problems is that not enough young women pay attention to it NBA, Twitch reach deal on 2K League streaming rights   Comment Q&A Hop into the comments section below to chat with The Post’s Tim Bontemps about all of your NBA questions.