Eastern Conference finals: Game 7 Washington Capitals vs. Tampa Bay Lightning Series: Tied 3-3 Amalie Arena, 8 p.m. ET | TV: NBCSN • In-game updates and analysis: Alex Ovechkin got on the board and the Capitals took a 1-0 lead just a minute into the game. Goaltender Braden Holtby made it stand up for the first 20 minutes after an intense first period that saw a fight between Tom Wilson and Braydon Coburn. (Read more) • This will be the 11th Game 7 for captain Alex Ovechkin. (Read more) • Capitals goaltender Braden Holtby is coming off his first shutout of the season. (Read more) • Washington’s fourth line has been crucial for the team all postseason. (Read more) In-game updates No shot, no chaser: The Caps needed nearly five minutes to take their first shot of the second period, while the Lightning maintained their assault. Still, there were no goals. Doc Emrick is screaming: Not long after hitting the pipe, Victor Hedman got below the goal line and pushed the puck behind Holtby to Yanni Gourde, who was staring at both the hockey puck and a completely empty net. His stick and the puck didn’t connect, though, and the Caps somehow survived what appeared to be a certain goal. So, presumably, did Emrick. It does not get much closer than this. pic.twitter.com/QUfvzOTGam Holtby under pressure: The Lightning continued to create chances right in front of Holtby’s net, with Tampa’s biggest stars — Nikita Kucherov, Steven Stamkos, Victor Hedman — peppering Holtby in dangerous situations. A Hedman blast early in the second period pinged off a Capitals player’s skate and then off the pipe to Holtby’s right, but the Lightning remained scoreless. .@heds77 comes awfully close to tying it. pic.twitter.com/2k5ReGP0EZ Holtby is good: With a scoreless first period, Braden Holtby extended his scoreless stretch to more than 119 minutes. (No jinx.) The Lightning scored early in the second period of Game 5, and haven’t scored since. (No jinx.) His rebound control perhaps left something to be desired in the first period, but for the Caps, the scoreboard did not. No jinx. It’s not all good for Caps: Washington is better in the one stat that matters, as the Capitals lead 1-0 after the first period, but it is only a matter of time before Tampa Bay gets a goal (or two) of their own if these shooting trends continue. The Lightning had a 10-to-5 edge in even-strength scoring chances, including a 4-to-1 advantage in shot attempts in the slot and the crease. Seven different Tampa Bay skaters had at least one scoring chance in that frame with Alex Killorn, Brayden Point and Chris Kunitz each chipping in two. Braden Holtby was not breached, however. End Period 1: Capitals 1, Lightning 0 The teams continued to trade haymakers even after the feisty heavyweights stopped punching each other in the head. Both teams had opportunities in the final five minutes, but the score remained unchanged, with Alex Ovechkin’s goal standing up. (Tom Wilson and Braydon Coburn’s fight, by the way, was the first in an NHL Game 7 in more than a year.) Shots at the end of the first period were 10-9 Lightning, but NBC analyst Eddie Olczyk compared Washington’s defensive performance to the all-hands-on-deck showing in Game 6 against Pittsburgh, arguing that the Caps were successfully taking away offensive lanes from Tampa. EVERYTHING IS HAPPENING: Who wants a bit of Game 7 fisticuffs? Caps heavyweight Tom Wilson tangled with Tampa defenseman Braydon Coburn not long after both players got out of the penalty box following matching unsportsmanlike calls. This time, they traded haymakers, and were both saluted by their teams before leaving the ice with matching major penalties. Wilson appeared angered by Coburn having ripped off Evgeny Kuznetsov’s jersey during a scrum in front of the Tampa net. But it’s not like Kuznetsov was naked or anything. GAME 7! pic.twitter.com/TbjGkwTJxC Tom Wilson-Braydon Coburn fight fires up Caps fans at arena viewing party pic.twitter.com/RXJXuFn6ni Oshie shaken up: T.J. Oshie joined Smith-Pelly in the line of fire, blocking a ferocious slap shot of his own shortly after Smith-Pelly reappeared. Oshie retreated to the bench with some difficulty. Smith-Pelly returns: The Caps forward was back on the bench with seven minutes left in the first period, looking none the worse for wear after taking a shot to his head earlier in the period. A huge reversal: After Washington’s lightning-quick surge to start the game (ahem), the tide turned. The Caps didn’t record a shot on goal in a stretch lasting nearly 10 minutes, and the Lightning recorded nine consecutive shots. The Caps finally threatened Vasilevskiy, with Ovechkin unable to beat his countryman’s flopping legs. The resulting scrum led to matching unsportsmanlike calls for Tom Wilson and Braydon Coburn. How does he do this…?!#VASYVASYVASY | #GoBolts pic.twitter.com/2OLus0CPed A scary moment: Caps forward Devante Smith-Pelly sold out to block a blast from Ryan McDonagh, going down to the ice. He blocked the shot, but the puck crashed into the back of his head or neck, and he immediately grabbed at his head with both hands. Smith-Pelly, a key contributor in these playoffs, headed straight to the Washington dressing room. oooof DSP takes a McDonagh slapper to the back of the head pic.twitter.com/VeSATvmUMc Tampa’s alive: Tampa recovered from Washington’s early onslaught, and nearly six minutes into the game, Alex Killorn had a golden chance in front of the net. But his backhand was confidently snagged by Braden Holtby, coming off his first shutout of the season. Another chance: Before two minutes were gone, the Capitals earned a power-play opportunity, with the penalty drawn by Lars Eller against Brayden Point. The Caps generated several stellar chances with the man advantage, with an unmarked Jakub Vrana ringing a shot off the post, but they were unable to add to their lead. The penalty kill gave the Tampa crowd a tiny jolt of life. Alex Ovechkin makes an immediate impact: Alex Ovechkin blasted Washington into the lead just 62 seconds into the game, aided by a Tom Wilson hit on Chris Kuntiz in the neutral zone that forced a turnover. Evgeny Kuznetsov found Ovechkin at his trademark spot, and he beat  Andrei Vasilevskiy short side to put Washington on top. The voices of the bellowing Caps could be heard in the near-silent arena. .@Ovi8 and the @Capitals start Game 7 with a big one-timer! Watch the #StanleyCup Playoffs here → https://t.co/jJKrr7kggG pic.twitter.com/AVNBeXPwbT Fans watching Viewing Party explode after Caps go up early 1-0. This place is LOUD! @ABC7News pic.twitter.com/fkyZP0z7D1 Lightning shaking up lines?: The Bolts looked a little different during pre-game warmups. Here’s how they lined up during rushes: Alex Killorn-Steven Stamkos-Nikita Kucherov Ondrej Palat-Brayden Point-Tyler Johnson Yanni Gourde-Anthony Cirelli-J.T. Miller Chris Kunitz-Cedric Paquette-Ryan Callahan Victor Hedman-Dan Girardi Ryan McDonagh-Anton Stralman Braydon Coburn-Mikhail Sergachev The Lightning previously sported a different look in warmups this series, then reverted to different line combos, so there’s no guarantee this is how the Bolts will start Game 7. And if they find themselves trailing, you can bet head coach Jon Cooper will make some more alterations. Point could be a problem: Brayden Point, not Steven Stamkos or Nikita Kucherov, might be the toughest player for Washington to stop in Game 7. The 22-year-old center has three goals and three assists, plus a team-high 13 high-danger scoring chances — the only skater on the team in double digits — with five of those shot attempts in the slot or crease on the power play. Point has also been credited with four takeaways, three blocked shots and two hits, giving his skill set a very physical component. Capitals benefiting from deep scoring lineup: Washington, more so than Tampa Bay, is getting secondary scoring. Evgeny Kuznetsov, Devante Smith-Pelly and Brett Connolly share the team lead for even-strength goals scored in this series with two. Forwards Alex Ovechkin, Jay Beagle, Lars Eller and Tom Wilson plus defensemen Michal Kempny and Dmitry Orlov each have one. Twelve of Washington skaters have aat least two even-strength points, double that of Tampa Bay’s roster. Plus, the Lightning have only six skaters with at least a goal scored skating 5-on-5. One notable exception left off the scoresheet at even strength for Washington is Nicklas Backstrom. He has no goals or assists at 5-on-5 but he does have six shots on net and four scoring chances. To be fair, he did miss the first few games, but if the Capitals are going to move on to the Stanley Cup finals they will need their second-line center contributing more than solely in the face off dot. Can Caps’ D keep it up?: Washington’s defense, including Braden Holtby in net, has been a huge asset in this series. The Capitals have allowed 24 shots and 25 scoring chances per game, significantly less than the Lightning, 35 and 30, respectively. Andrei Vasilevskiy has been better at stopping all pucks, however, including those from the high-danger areas such as the slot and the crease (.939 save percentage). In a winner-take-all contest like tonight’s Game 7, it usually comes down to which goaltender is playing at the top of his game. Based on volume, that should be Holtby. Looking at clutch play, signs point to Vasilevskiy. Top story lines • Game 7: No NHL team has played in more Game 7s over the past decade than Washington. Ovechkin acknowledged this might be the biggest game of his life, and he seemed to be looking forward to it. “I think both teams have experience to play those games,” Ovechkin said. “It’s going to be hard, it’s going to be interesting, it’s going to be fun. You know, you play hockey because of these moments. One game. That’s it. Everything on the line.” Lightning Coach Jon Cooper walked into his pregame news conference and muttered, “Wow.” “Is something going on tonight?” he cracked. The Lightning won the Stanley Cup in 2004, and Tampa Bay went to the final three years ago. But much like Ovechkin and center Nicklas Backstrom, the current core of players is still chasing a championship. “Been to a conference final in three of the last four years,” defenseman Victor Hedman said. “We’ve been close, but haven’t reached our ultimate goal yet. For me and [Steven Stamkos], we’ve almost been here for almost a decade now. We want to win with this organization. We want to bring a Stanley Cup back to Tampa.” • Physical play: The Capitals outhit the Lightning, 39-19, in Monday’s Game 6, and Washington did so while still controlling possession for most of the game. The Capitals called their bruising play throughout the series “an investment,” hopeful that Tampa Bay players will be worn down by the time Game 7 begins. “It’s the way we’ve got to play,” center Jay Beagle said emphatically. “I think when we play our best is when we’re physical and we’re dictating the game with how physical we can play. I think that’s obviously a key. You saw it [Monday] night. We have to do it again in Game 7.” Said defenseman Brooks Orpik: “That’s probably one area where we have an edge is the size and physical play, and over the course of a seven-game series it’s something we talked about. Just when we get opportunities, don’t run out of position, but try to wear them down when you can.” • Special teams: The Capitals have been smart to stay out of the penalty box the past two games, but when they’ve been tested shorthanded, they’ve impressed. The Lightning’s power play started the series 6-for-13, but the Capitals have killed three straight penalties over the past two games. In Game 6, Tampa Bay managed just one shot on goal with its man-advantage, and Washington matched that while on the penalty kill. So far in this series, the team that’s won the special teams battle has won the game. “In special teams especially, it’s a cat and mouse every game,” Holtby said. “We’ve got a plan tonight that we’re going to have to execute and adjust if they’ve made adjustments.” • Road success: Washington has seemed relaxed on the road this postseason, with a 7-2 record away from Capital One Arena. The Capitals have started a superstition, in which one member of the team takes a solo lap before the morning skate, and since Washington lost its last game in Tampa Bay, Ovechkin had to tab someone new to take the lap on Wednesday. In a surprise, he chose Coach Barry Trotz. Caps lost their last road game. So someone else had to do the hot lap. It was Barry friggin’ Trotz. pic.twitter.com/F5k9j9AfkS “I looked at it this way, real simply: they called my number,” Trotz said. “At this time of year, you’re all in. And so, I was ready. I was surprised. And I was a little bit worried about the turns because the rudders haven’t been sharpened all year. You didn’t see a lot of crossovers there. I used body mass and weight to dig in there. And it was a little bit of a slow lap. You’re all in this time of year. They call your number, you got to step up to the plate. You got to do it. So I appreciated it. They had a good chuckle. “Obviously we’re pretty loose.” Players to watch Braden Holtby: The Capitals have gone as Holtby has during this entire playoff run. In his first 12 postseason starts, the Capitals were 10-2 and Holtby had a .928 save percentage and 2.04 goals against average. In their next three games — losses in Games 3, 4 and 5 to fall behind, 3-2, to the Lightning — Holtby allowed 3.49 goals a contest and posted an .844 save percentage. Then the 28-year-old goaltender pitched his first shutout of the season in the Capitals’ 3-0 season-extending win Monday. How he fares in net Wednesday, especially with standout goalie Andrei Vasilevskiy between the pipes across the ice, will have a major bearing on whether the Capitals move on to the Stanley Cup finals. “That was last game,” Trotz of Holtby’s Game 6 shutout. “It’s a new game. There’s no … to me nothing really carries over.” Andrei Vasilevskiy: After giving up 10 goals (and a stunningly low 84 percent save percentage) in the first two games of the series, the young Russian goaltender took plenty of heat. He’s responded with memorable moments in each of the last four games. He had a series-high 38 saves in Game 3. He single-handedly stole Game 4 with the best postseason performance of his career. He made several crucial stops in the final minutes to stave off a Washington comeback in Game 5, and he was a lone bright spot in a shutout loss in Game 6. Whatever the 23-year-old has in store for Game 7, Tampa Bay is focused on giving him support after its worst showing of the series. “We know we have to be better, there’s no doubt about that. We watched the tape, went over the game plan,” Tampa Bay captain Steven Stamkos said of Game 6. “There’s not a lot to be said when you get into a scenario like this. We’ll elevate our game, no doubt about that.” Pregame reading Immerse yourself in the Capitals’ postseason with The Post’s coverage of the Stanley Cup playoffs: Capitals’ grinders are at the center of extraordinary playoff moments Boswell: The Capitals’ best chance to shed their demons? Embrace the moment. Tampa Bay is no stranger to Game 7 in Eastern Conference finals Bog: Was Caps’ win the greatest in Capital One Arena history? It looked and sounded like it. It’s not just you: The Caps really do play an absurd number of Game 7s The Capitals haven’t been bad in Game 7s, they’ve just been unlucky ‘The biggest game of our life’: Capitals brace for Game 7 vs. Lightning Game 7 puts Capitals’ Alex Ovechkin in familiar role: Squarely in the spotlight Signed for moments just like these, T.J. Oshie cashes in to keep Capitals alive Braden Holtby picks the perfect time to play his best game for the Capitals Lightning’s Andrei Vasilevskiy was brilliant once more, but was beaten because his teammates were not The Capitals need a hero, and it needs to be Braden Holtby The Lightning knows what’s at stake in Game 6: A chance to rest Capitals’ Matt Niskanen is quick to take blame but deserves more of the credit The Capitals got themselves into this mess, but they’re staying the course Svrluga: The Capitals have spent all their house money. Do they have anything in reserve? Unburdened by previous playoff baggage, Capitals’ young players help carry the load After being blamed for Game 3 loss, Caps fans destroy broom signed by Nicklas Backstrom I’ll have what Alex Ovechkin is having: Fans can’t get enough of Mamma Lucia’s chicken Parmesan Steven Stamkos is healthy, confident and ready to lead the Lightning’s comeback Barry Trotz lacks a contract extension, but has perspective as Capitals pursue Stanley Cup Washington’s expected lineup Forwards Alex Ovechkin-Evgeny Kuznetsov-Tom Wilson Jakub Vrana-Nicklas Backsrom-T.J. Oshie Andre Burakovsky-Lars Eller-Brett Connolly Chandler Stephenson-Jay Beagle-Devante Smith-Pelly Defensemen Michal Kempny-John Carlson Dmitry Orlov-Matt Niskanen Brooks Orpik-Christian Djoos Goaltenders Braden Holtby (starter) Philipp Grubauer Tampa Bay’s expected lineup Forwards Ondrej Palat-Steven Stamkos-Nikita Kucherov Yanni Gourde-Brayden Point-Tyler Johnson Alex Killorn-Anthony Cirelli-J.T. Miller Chris Kunitz-Cedric Paquette-Ryan Callahan Defensemen Victor Hedman-Dan Girardi Ryan McDonagh-Anton Stralman Braydon Coburn-Mikahil Sergachev Goaltenders Andrei Vasilevskiy (starter) Louis Domingue