SANDY, Utah — For a fun few days, D.C. United’s pursuit of Wayne Rooney created a welcome distraction to the problems of a slow-starting campaign and, depending on how one felt about the potential blockbuster move, offered hope or greater despair. On Saturday, seven time zones from where the coveted English legend sorts out his future, United returned to the reality of a bad season. A promising start turned rancid in the span of seven minutes midway through the first half, resulting in a 3-2 defeat to Real Salt Lake before an announced crowd of 16,961 at Rio Tinto Stadium. Paul Arriola scored in the ninth minute, the third consecutive game that United has gone ahead inside 10 minutes. But after RSL’s equalizer, United lost defender Joseph Mora to a red card, conceded the go-ahead goal and watched Luciano Acosta take issue with Coach Ben Olsen’s decision to replace him for tactical reasons. [If he comes to DCU, Rooney would become one of MLS’s highest paid players] RSL (4-5-1) extended the lead early in the second half before Steve Birnbaum scored in the 83rd minute. United (1-5-2) has not won on the road since August and hasn’t won a league match here since its first visit in 2005. Onetime D.C. standout Nick Rimando — RSL’s “Wall of the Wasatch” and the most-decorated goalkeeper in MLS history — earned his 200th regular season victory. The path doesn’t get any easier for United, which will take three additional western trips (four matches) during this eight-game away stretch before Audi Field, United’s new stadium, opens July 14. While the defeats add up, United is making efforts to sign Rooney, the all-time scoring leader for Manchester United and the English national team. [Analysis: Rooney transfer would be a huge gamble for D.C. United, but one it appears willing to make] “There’s obviously interest here and interest there,” Olsen said. “Hopefully, everyone can meet and get it done.” Even if Rooney leaves Everton and the Premier League, he would not be eligible to play until MLS’s transfer and trade window opens July 10. So as the Rooney negotiations continue, Olsen needs to find ways to collect points with who he has. On Saturday, he made a surprise change to the lineup by dropping left-side attacker Yamil Asad. Zoltan Stieber (one goal, one assist in the previous match) started on the left and Ulises Segura moved from the middle to the right wing. Arriola, a natural winger, joined Acosta in central attacking roles. United went ahead when Arriola was left unmarked on Stieber’s service. He lined up a 13-yard, left-footed volley that beat Rimando to the left side of the net. A moment after Rimando thwarted Stieber’s threat, it all turned sour for United. “The question is, how do we keep the lead throughout the game,” Arriola said. “With the red card, it was always going to be tough.” Five minutes before his ejection, Mora stumbled while trying to mark Corey Baird pursuing Joao Plata’s threatening service into the penalty area. Baird nodded a lunging header into the right side. In the 24th minute, Mora was sent off after video review. Initially, he was assessed a yellow card for a tackle from behind, but after watching the replay on a sideline monitor, referee Rubiel Vazquez reached for the red. It was a harsh decision, but Mora appeared to get his studs up on the back of Jefferson Savarino’s lower calf. “From the angle I saw, it could go either way,” Olsen said. “I’m sure [the officials] have a few more angles. Maybe they’ll let me be privy to those, but it just seems like all the [reviews] that have been 50-50 in the last month have gone against of us.” It only got worse for the bruised visitors. With United pinned back and unable to alleviate danger in the box, Brooks Lennon slipped the ball back to Albert Rusnak for a 15-yard one-timer into the far corner. Down a man and a goal, Olsen added left-sided Oniel Fisher and removed Acosta, his most creative player. The decision did not sit well with Acosta, who, upon approaching the bench, brushed off assistant coach Chad Ashton and snapped at Olsen. “It’s a big field, you’re playing at altitude, I needed legs,” Olsen said. “I needed a left back. It’s not fair. It’s not fun for Lucho to get subbed. I will stand by it. [Afterward,] we played very well. The group was committed.” It wasn’t the first time Acosta had lost his cool with the coaching staff after leaving a match early: In May 2016, he created a stir at Philadelphia. Olsen didn’t seem upset by Acosta’s reaction, saying, “Would you take it well? I didn’t take it well when I was a player.” RSL struck in the 56th minute when Rusnak played a through ball to Savarino. When Steve Clark came off his line, Savarino lifted the ball past him. Birnbaum got it back in the late stages by heading in Nick DeLeon’s bouncing cross, but United’s spirited push for the equalizer fell short. On the final sequence, Clark ran the length of the field to join a corner kick and collided with Rimando, who was down and dazed for a moment after getting hit in the head. “We’re a better team than we think we are,” Clark said. “We go up 1-0 every game. It’s time for us to take another step.” More Soccer: Wayne Rooney is closer to deal with D.C. United, but outlook remains ’50-50′ D.C. United is guaranteed (rewards) points on seven-match, 19,539-mile road trip