Here’s all the news you need for what’s happening online, on television and on the ground at Churchill Downs. This post will be updated through the afternoon. The hats have arrived Is it a runway or racetrack? It almost depends who you ask. NBC’s Johnny Weir and Tara Lipinski are always dressed to the nines, and offered a take on what is “in” for the run for the roses, and a preview of what’s fashionable for the summer. Floral patterns are a favorite, especially busy ones. The print that used to be on your grandmother’s couch, Weir offered: if you can brighten it up, it makes for a dress or tie. Yellow is also apparently in style, thanks to Beyonce’s Coachella performance in a bright yellow hoodie. Look closely, and you’ll see it everywhere in the Derby: ladies’ hats, men’s suits, a whole bunch of hats. And about those hats: you’re going to see a lot of them this summer between the three jewels of the Triple Crown and the royal wedding. You’re looking for tall hats (like sometimes several feet in height) and sparkly hats. Maybe draw some inspiration from the head-wear in this photo gallery. It’s a very wet day at the track The rain is the main story early in the day at Churchill Downs in Louisville It is currently raining heavily and 67 degrees, according the National Weather Service, which forecasts rain on and off through the rest of the afternoon and evening. The track is considered “muddy” — a deeper and slower surface — and could be trending toward “sloppy” as more precipitation comes down. [Everything you need to know for the 144th running of the Kentucky Derby] Meanwhile in the grandstand, patrons are scrambling for shelter beneath some covering or trying to acquire a poncho. In the infield, NBC cameras have caught fans to covering themselves with tarps or trying to sidle up beneath an unsuspecting friends’ hat. It is the 15th time the Derby has been run on Cinco de Mayo. Decked out sombreros are a popular choice among fans both in person and online. This post will be updated throughout the afternoon in the lead up to the run for the roses. In the meantime, here’s everything you need to know about what’s going on in the box office and on the track. When: Post time is scheduled for 6:46 p.m. Eastern. How to watch: Race coverage begins at noon on NBC Sports Network, and at 2:30 on NBC. Bob Costas and Mike Tirico will host NBC’s coverage. The coverage will also be streamed on NBCSports.com and the NBC Sports app. Length: The race is 1 1/4 miles long. Horses to watch: Fun stuff How do thoroughbreds get their names? The rules are surprisingly complex, and the results surprisingly amusing: Justify? Solomini? How the Kentucky Derby horses get their names. How to make the best mint julep for the Kentucky Derby? We’ve got the recipe, plus four variations: The Kentucky Derby means mint juleps. Here are four variations. Read more Kentucky Derby coverage: The Kentucky Derby field is dominated by a horse who died in 2015 Justify? Solomini? How the Kentucky Derby horses get their names. Expert picks for the 2018 Kentucky Derby In the 1882 Kentucky Derby, Apollo pulled off a feat that’s still unmatched Dancer’s Image, drugs and MLK: The enduring mystery of the 1968 Kentucky Derby The 2018 Kentucky Derby has a slew of star power and a slew of favorites If there is rain at the 2018 Kentucky Derby, Bolt d’Oro is still the horse to beat Best bets for the 2018 Kentucky Derby include Bolt d’Oro and other long shots