Eugene Hughes, a former boxer and boxing trainer, drug abuse counselor, and founder in 1975 of a youth program of education and personal discipline through boxing, died March 12 at an assisted-living apartment in Washington. He was 80. The D.C. medical examiner’s office said a determination of the cause of death is pending further tests. Several years ago, Mr. Hughes underwent hip replacement surgery, said Khalia Jackson, vice president of the board of the Midtown Youth Academy, which Mr. Hughes founded more than 40 years ago. He moved about with the assistance of a walker and had been injured in an accidental fall. In the gritty neighborhoods of inner-city Washington where Mr. Hughes grew up with 13 siblings in the 1940s, fists were a necessary element of survival, and the young Eugene “Thunder” Hughes knew how to use them. In 1954, he won a Golden Gloves championship. He fought 331 amateur fights as a lightweight and 26 professional bouts. He was born Eugene Ralph Hughes in Washington on April 23, 1937, and grew up in the Southwest neighborhood in a family headed by his mother and grandmother. They worked as domestics, cleaning other peoples’ houses. As a teenager, he began caddying at Burning Tree country club in Bethesda, Md., supplementing the family income with his tips. This would continue for several years. Washington Post sports columnist Bob Addie once wrote that, as a caddy, Mr. Hughes had been a favorite of former president Dwight D. Eisenhower, the late Washington Post publisher Philip Graham, General of the Army Omar Bradley and Clark Clifford, the former secretary of defense. He had reasons dating back to his childhood for his purpose in starting a program to help “at risk” youths. “My father was a drug addict for 42 years,” Mr. Hughes told The Washington Post decades later. “We depended on the strong will of women. They taught us how to survive.” He lived in California for a period in his youth but floundered there. He spent 27 months in prison but declined to publicly reveal why. He was back in Washington within a few years, working as a drug abuse counselor for the D.C. Department of Human Services. In 1975, he recruited young men from the neighborhood into a boxing and discipline program he called the “Fourteenth Street Academy” in a rented building at 14th and T streets in Northwest. From his own family history and from his work with addicts, Mr. Hughes was aware that addiction is often passed down from one generation to another. “In order to break that pattern and to enable young men to develop self-discipline and goal oriented activities, I recruited the sons of several narcotics addicts from my drug counseling caseload to become members of my boxing team,” he told The Post in 2014. “Boxing is a discipline that encourages respecting the body as a Temple.” In 1977, the program became the Midtown Youth Academy, supported by foundation grants, government subsidies and charitable donations. A cheerleading and tumbling program was added for girls. Volunteer tutors were recruited to help with schoolwork. There was computer training and after-school learning workshops. “The children who come here used to have academic and truancy problems,” Mr. Hughes told The Post. “They are unsupervised children of the homeless, drug addicts, prostitutes and alcoholics. . . . But now many of my kids are going to college. . . . They are breaking the negative stereotypes.” There was a time when as many as 450 children every day would be in one program or another at the Midtown Youth Academy, and it thrived for more than 20 years. But the neighborhood changed. By the turn of the millennium, gentrification was replacing grit. Run-down apartments gave way to new and pricey condominiums. “There are still remnants of more vibrant days at the youth academy,” The Post wrote in 2014. “Under dim lights and missing ceiling tiles are framed photos of old students, proud and strong, in their boxing stances. Square computer monitors sit next to processors that used to power them. . . . Hughes has been in and out of hospitals and nursing homes.” In conversation, Mr. Hughes liked to refer to the graduates of the Midtown Youth Academy as “my children.” A complete list of survivors was not immediately available. Read more  Washington Post obituaries  George Deukmejian, two-term Calif. governor who espoused law and order, dies at 89 Anne V. Coates, Oscar-winning film editor of ‘Lawrence of Arabia,’ dies at 92 Anatole Katok, mathematician who explored chaos theory, dies at 73