LONDON — Even some of those who are lukewarm about the British monarchy were looking forward to a wedding that would help the royal family reflect some of the diversity of modern Britain. Mixed-race British royals are rare enough that you have to go all the way back to the early 1800s to find a candidate: Some historians believe that Queen Charlotte, wife of King George III, was of African descent. An official wedding photo released by Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, the newly minted Duke and Duchess of Sussex, highlights the historic nature of their union. Photographed in the Green Drawing Room of Windsor Castle, Meghan — who has asserted with pride that she is a “strong, confident mixed-race woman” — stands next to her African American mother, Doria Ragland, and is surrounded by senior royals and members of the wedding party. 1. Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex 2. Meghan, Duchess of Sussex 3. Queen Elizabeth II, grandmother of the groom 4. Prince Philip, grandfather of the groom 5. Doria Ragland, mother of the bride 6. Prince Charles, father of the groom 7. Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, stepmother of the groom 8. Prince William, elder brother of the groom 9. Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, sister-in-law of the couple 10. Princess Charlotte, 3, daughter of William and Catherine 11. Prince George, 4, eldest son of William and Catherine 12. Page boy Jasper Dyer, 6, godson of the groom 13. Page boy Brian Mulroney, 7, son of the bride's best friend 14. Bridesmaid Ivy Mulroney, 4, daughter of the bride's best friend 15. Bridesmaid Florence van Cutsem, 3, goddaughter of the groom 16. Bridesmaid Rylan Litt, 7, goddaughter of the bride 17. Page boy John Mulroney, 7, son of the bride's best friend 18. Bridesmaid Zalie Warren, 2, goddaughter of the groom 19. Bridesmaid Remi Litt, 6, goddaughter of the bride The official photos were taken by fashion photographer Alexi Lubomirski after the ceremony, which was widely celebrated for combining British and African American traditions. The Archbishop of Canterbury led the couple in their vows. Michael Curry, the first black leader of the Episcopal Church in the United States, delivered a 14-minute barnstorming address that people in Windsor and beyond were talking about long after the service. “It has been an incredible honor and privilege to document the Duke and Duchess of Sussex's inspiring journey of love, hope and family,” said Lubomirski, who also took Harry and Meghan's engagement photos. In a post on Instagram, he said: “This has been a beautiful chapter in my career and life, that I will happily never forget.” Kensington Palace tweeted that the newlyweds “would like to thank everyone who took part in the celebrations of their wedding on Saturday. They feel so lucky to have been able to share their day with all those gathered in Windsor and also all those who watched the wedding on television across the UK, Commonwealth, and around the world.” Read more: Meghan Markle declares herself a feminist on the British monarchy’s website What Meghan Markle means to black Brits At the royal wedding, some things very old and some things new The surprise star of the royal wedding: U.S. Bishop Michael Curry