BEIRUT — Lebanese voters headed to the polls Sunday for the country’s first election in almost a decade, hoping for change but expecting little. As polling booths filled up, voters spoke of a country that was stuck. A political class riven by corruption, a refugee crisis without end, a hobbled economy — Lebanon’s short-term prognosis is not rosy. “But if you don’t try, you’ll never know what might have changed,” Jehan Kansa, 53, said as she watched voters stream toward a polling station in the Hezbollah-dominated suburb of Dahiye. Sunday’s parliamentary elections were the first in nine years, governed by a complex new voting law that is intended to allow for the entry of new political players while preserving the country’s sect-based political system. Results are not expected until Monday. The makeup of the parliament could have significant implications for the country’s future path. Hezbollah, an Iran-backed paramilitary movement that has risen to become a key political player, hoped that the vote would return its parliamentary voting alliance’s first majority, and with it, the power to veto decisions on security and foreign policy that it did not agree with. “If it fails to get a majority, then we are likely to see a reproduction of the status quo,” said Mohanad Hage Ali, communications director for the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut. Although rival political leaders had used their final hours of campaigning to urge supporters to vote in high numbers, early estimates Sunday suggested that voter turnout fallen short of the 2009 election’s 55 percent figure, an indication, experts said, of voter frustration and confusion over the new electoral system. But for those who did turn out at crowding polling stations in the early morning, the election was seen as a rare chance to push incremental change in a country that badly needs it. For anyone younger than 30, Sunday’s vote marked the first chance to cast a national ballot in their lifetimes. “Lebanon has a lot of issues, but I love this country. People still hold on to hope; it’s a hope that a better day is coming,” said one 22-year-old, who gave only her first name, Mariam. Although the Lebanese parliament’s term expired in 2013, it has been renewed several times with officials citing security concerns linked to the bitter civil war in next-door Syria. The Lebanese army moved to secure the streets of Beirut overnight; military vehicles rolled through a usually crowded street of bars and clubs as soldiers controlled the flow of traffic. Anticipation had built for weeks as candidates campaigned vociferously, their faces looming over the city from billboard posters and banners plastered across shops and residential buildings. At polling stations across Beirut, the mood was upbeat throughout the morning as families turned out with their children and loyalists blared music from loudspeakers. But as the day wore on, the stream turned into a trickle at many polling places. Voters interviewed Sunday said they were worried about corruption among Lebanon’s political elite. But few believed that the candidates and parties that had promised to tackle it would look closely at their own. In an interview with leading Hezbollah candidate Ali Ammar on Sunday morning, a Lebanese journalist grilled him on corruption allegations against a political ally. He immediately changed the subject. One Uber driver, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said he was not voting because he expected the “same faces” to return to parliament. “I’m driving today. I’m just carrying on with my job,” he said. “The candidates who stood in our district will disappear again as soon as they get the votes. I think it’s best to stick with something a little more stable than voting — like my job.” Read more: Hezbollah looks to emerge stronger as Lebanese head to the polls Sunday United States unveils sanctions designed to strangle Iran-backed Hezbollah  Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news