President Trump intends to announce his decision on the future of the Iran nuclear deal on Tuesday, days ahead of a self-imposed deadline and amid signals that he will withdraw the United States three years after the Obama administration signed the pact. Trump said in a Monday afternoon tweet that he will make a statement at the White House at 2 p.m. Tuesday. The announcement comes after a flurry of entreaties from European allies, including in-person pleas last week from French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, for Trump to reconsider his opposition to the deal and maintain support. But Trump has continued to rail against the 2015 agreement with Iran, which was also signed by five other nations — China, Russia, Britain, France and Germany — as well as the European Union. In a tweet Monday, Trump referred to a Boston Globe report that John F. Kerry, who led President Barack Obama’s negotiating team while serving as secretary of state, was continuing to work with foreign governments to influence the Trump administration. Trump wrote: “The United States does not need John F. Kerry’s possibly illegal Shadow Diplomacy on the very badly negotiated Iran Deal. He was the one that created this MESS in the first place!” Last fall, Trump decertified the Iran deal, potentially allowing Congress to reimpose nuclear-related economic sanctions on Tehran that had been lifted as part of the pact. But the White House elected not to press lawmakers to act on the threats, instead maintaining the leverage that such measures could come down the line if Iran refused to renegotiate. The president set a deadline of May 12 to make his decision. Supporters of the deal, including Macron, had hoped to persuade Trump to keep the United States in the deal while a separate, side agreement was negotiated that could offer the president additional reassurances that Iran would take steps to cut support for terrorist groups in the Middle East. Critics, however, pushed Trump to follow through on his displeasure and end U.S. participation. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delivered a speech last week in which he called the agreement a “terrible deal” and predicted that Trump would “do the right thing.” Macron told reporters during his visit to Washington that he expected Trump to “get rid of this deal on his own for domestic reasons.” Ian Bremmer, president of Eurasia Group, a global risk analysis firm, said a withdrawal from the Iran deal would be the “biggest slap in the face to date to U.S. allies,” more significant than withdrawing from the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal and the Paris climate accord, recognizing Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and imposing steel and aluminum tariffs on Japan and other nations. Trump’s decision comes weeks before he is expected to meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in a bid to curb that nation’s nuclear weapons program. Some foreign policy experts said that canceling the Iran deal could send the message to Kim’s regime that the United States is an unreliable negotiating partner. But Victor Cha, a Korea expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said at a conference Monday that the Trump White House would use a withdrawal to “send the signal that an Iran deal is not good enough for North Korea — that they need to do better than an Iran deal.” Cha added: “In terms of how the North Koreans would take it, I don’t think they’d take it one way or the other. I don’t think they’d see it as negative or positive because they think they’re different from everybody else, anyway.”