Jerry Brewer In the NFL owners’ war to protect their cash cow, Eric Reid is little more than collateral damage. They weren’t aiming for him, really, just the idea of him. After a year in which their magic money-printing machine hiccupped a few times, they’re determined to eliminate their most high-profile glitch: player protests. So as far as they’re concerned — albeit not in a manner easily proved in a court of law — Reid’s football career will have to take a knee. Reid is a free safety in a pass-happy league. He has started 69 games over five NFL seasons with San Francisco. He’s 26, and while his tape now isn’t as good as that from his first few years, he is a player who should have been signed to a decent contract within the first few weeks of free agency. But nearly two months after the new league year began, Reid seems to be persona non grata, and he just happens to be a man who stood by Colin Kaepernick and joined him in protesting during the national anthem in 2016, beginning a wave of NFL player social activism that erupted into an unavoidable conflict last season. Even though the owners stood by their players after President Trump’s vulgar criticism last September, even though they have made a pledge to partner with the players to contribute $89 million over seven years toward social justice causes, compromise isn’t enough for them. They want the protests gone, and they are willing to eliminate them by all means necessary except for one: overt bullying. [NFL players union files grievance against Bengals in support of Eric Reid] The owners can’t agree on a revised anthem policy, and they would have an even harder time enforcing it with teeth because this is a collectively bargained league. So they don’t want to swing their boss hammers too violently and infuriate fans who support the players’ freedom of expression. It is much easier to create the illusion of collaboration with the workforce and then vanish into the shadows to take out anyone or anything that complicates the agenda. Nothing personal, Eric. Just business. And good luck proving collusion. Reid and Kaepernick are teammates again as they sue the NFL and try to salvage their careers. In addition, the NFL Players Association has filed a grievance on Reid’s behalf, referencing the reported meeting between the player and Cincinnati owner Mike Brown at which Brown probed Reid about whether he would continue protesting. It sets up an interesting and complicated debate that could include more players in the future. In a sport that hates distractions, how much can a team scrutinize a player about his protest intentions? Is it right, not morally but within a team’s (a business’s) beliefs, to hold such a thing against a player? NFL teams are in the practice of evaluating and scrutinizing talent using dozens of factors. They always can find reason to sign a player or to pass on him. The NFL doesn’t care that Kaepernick can still be, at least, a serviceable starter or quality backup. Now Reid may not be good enough to transcend his polarity as a protester. It’s unfair, especially to those of us who believe athlete activism is valuable to social progress. But from a team perspective, it’s understandable. Disappointing but understandable. Professional sports are all about risk vs. reward. Sadly, taking a dramatic stand against inequality and police brutality makes you a risk. The national debate has been framed as one of freedom of speech, but from the beginning, it has been a labor issue in the NFL. And for as much as people try to compare pro sports to their own work environment, it is not the same. Most of us don’t operate as partners in our business in the same way that major sports stars do. We aren’t as high priced, which makes us more disposable. We don’t have fans wearing our jersey. We don’t have celebrity status to ensure that, no matter what problems we encounter, our voice can be heard. There are limits even for famous athletes, though. Social justice shouldn’t be a pawn in a greater game, but in this complicated instance, the NFL player protests are turning into a showdown between the athlete’s freedom and ownership’s power. [NFL owners could leave national anthem policy to individual teams] To the owners, Reid represents a threat to normalcy. He was part of the Players Coalition that seemingly helped bridge the understanding between players and owners and led to that $89 million agreement. But Reid left the coalition late last year, calling the owners’ commitment “a charade” and accusing them of taking money from other league causes — a Salute to Service and Breast Cancer Awareness — rather than providing new funding for social justice. “So it would really be no skin off the owners’ backs,” Reid told Slate then. “They would just move the money from those programs to this one.” For the owners, it’s an embarrassing accusation. Spread their contribution to this fund over 32 teams and a seven-year period, owners are essentially dropping spare change when the collection plate is passed around at church. With their high profits, they won’t miss that money. Reid’s allegation makes the owners look as if they are offering a cheap bribe. With owners adamant about returning the conversation to football this season, it figures Reid would be disregarded as a useful player. It all makes you wonder why many of the owners locked arms with the players in the first place. It was a shortsighted gesture, and when the anti-protest portion of the fan base applied pressure, the owners cowered. Clearly, they were reacting, not thinking. Most of them may not be against their players, but they darn sure aren’t for them. So after another year of protesting and months of negotiating, it’s still unclear how this story will end. The owners probably won’t come up with a new anthem policy; they have floated the idea recently of letting individual teams decide themselves. And another prominent player who took a stance seems to have been quietly and systemically eliminated from the league. For the public, the owners compromised. In reality, they are doing everything necessary to scare the players into remembering who’s the boss.