In an instant, he disappeared — slipping beneath the water in a shallow swimming pool on the South Carolina coast. The 12-year-old Michigan boy and a friend had been playing in a lazy river at the Avista Resort in North Myrtle Beach, a popular vacation spot in South Carolina. Then one of the children’s goggles broke and fell through a grate at the bottom of the pool, according to NBC affiliate WDIV. The boy, identified in news reports as Evan, dipped under a few feet of water and lifted the grate, which was covering a drainage pipe. His leg was sucked into the intake and, just like that, he was trapped underwater. Surveillance video captured the almost eight minutes in March that the boy struggled as bystanders tried to free him. “It was scary. It seemed to happen fast but take forever at the same time,” his mother, Alyssa Pappas, told the station. Caught on camera: Boy trapped underwater in hotel pool for nearly 8 minutes survives with help from heroic rescuers pic.twitter.com/NGvN7VHnHi In an interview with NBC News that aired this week, Pappas spoke about the terrifying moment that her son nearly died and then the days that he spent in a drug-induced coma in the hospital fighting for his life. Typically, the human body can go without oxygen only for a few minutes before the organs, namely the lungs and brain, are at risk of permanent damage, according to Medical Daily. “You’re on vacation. You think you can take it easy and relax. But even with adult supervision, things could happen,” she said. “It happens very quickly, and I just hope that this keeps somebody from going through what we went through.” [Body of 4-year-old boy found days after wave swept him away from his mother in Outer Banks] A sign posted near the swimming pool warned people that there was no lifeguard on duty and to “swim at your own risk.” After the boy slipped underwater, he appeared to reach up and grab the grate, which his friend was holding for him. Inflatable inner tubes drifted around the lazy river as the friend tried desperately to pull the boy up by his arm. After about a minute-and-a-half, the friend started waving and calling for help. A woman nearby hopped into the water and tried to pull the boy free. “He’s drowning right now,” a 911 caller told an emergency dispatcher, according to audio that was obtained by the “Today” show. “We need somebody now.” The morning show reported that a Pennsylvania corrections officer, a family friend who was also vacationing there, ran to the pool. The surveillance video showed the moment he jumped into the water still carrying an infant who was secured inside a baby swim ring and rushed to help the boy. Another woman tended to the infant as the man went to work. The corrections officer, identified as Shaun Skursky, tried to pull the child from the drain. When he could not free the boy, Skursky started giving the child mouth-to-mouth resuscitation — surfacing to take breaths before going underwater again to give air to the child. After 7 minutes and 40 seconds — after good Samaritans and first responders worked to pull the boy free and resort employees switched off the swimming pool pumps — people pulled the boy from the pool and immediately started to perform CPR. The boy’s mother told NBC News that for the next several days her son was kept in a medically induced coma and remained on a ventilator for more than a week. “You didn’t even know if he was going to open his eyes or what would happen once they did stop the medicine to wake him up,” she said in the interview. But he did wake up, and is now home and back in school in Commerce Township, near Detroit. His mother said he is being monitored for potential brain damage. Avista Resort did not immediately respond Tuesday to a request for comment by The Washington Post but said in a statement to NBC News that it is “thrilled” that the child is recovering from the incident. Officials at the resort said that the swimming pool, which had reportedly passed inspections, “is safe for all of our guests” as long as the grates are in place. “Evidence confirms that the boy and his companion dislodged the grate before he caught his foot in the intake,” the resort said. But the family’s attorney, Michael Morse, told the station that the grate should not have been loose enough for a child to remove. He could not immediately be reached for comment by The Post. Pappas, the boy’s mother, said the ordeal was traumatic but that she is thankful her son is alive. “I know that so many people prayed for him,” she said, sobbing. “It’s just a miracle, I think.” Read more: A 4-year-old dies days after going swimming. Was ‘dry drowning’ to blame? A 3-year-old playing near an ice cream shop disappeared into a grease pit and drowned