Tuesday brings two more possible closeouts, a pair of Game 5s in the Western Conference between the Houston Rockets and Utah Jazz followed by Golden State Warriors and New Orleans Pelicans. Is this the end of the line for the Jazz and Pelicans? We will have live analysis throughout both games, and join the discussion in the comments. Catch up on yesterday’s results here. Schedule and results | Pregame reading | Comments section Q&A   If the Utah Jazz are going to force their Western Conference semifinal series back to Salt Lake City for Game 6, they’re going to have to do it without both Ricky Rubio and Dante Exum. The two international point guards – Rubio is from Spain, while Exum is from Australia – will miss Game 5 Tuesday night with hamstring strains. Rubio has missed the entire series after getting hurt during Game 6 of Utah’s first round victory over Oklahoma City, while Exum injured his in the second half of Game 4 Sunday night. Jae Crowder seems likely to start for the Jazz again, but the lack of Rubio and Exum leaves Utah without two players that can both attack the rim offensively and effectively guard defensively. That puts even more of a burden on rookie Donovan Mitchell, who has struggled this series to contend with everything Houston’s defense has thrown at him. Utah already managed to win in Houston once. It is going to be a monumental challenge for the Jazz to do it a second time.   Schedule:   Additional reading: After another demolition at the hands of the Cavaliers, what’s next for the Raptors? The day Donovan Mitchell won over the Jazz ‘A hood fairy tale’: Inside Meek Mill’s deep connection to the 76ers How the Cavs and Celtics pushed favored opponents to the brink Draymond Green shrugs off death threat, says he hopes comedian gets ‘help that he needs’ David Fizdale gives the Knicks a chance to start over. They need to give him time. ‘The ref was crazy’: Chris Paul’s brother was nearly ejected from Rockets game LeBron’s ‘other Cavaliers’ roasted by SNL Bucks will make Becky Hammon first woman to interview for NBA head coaching job Donovan Mitchell on dunk vs. Rockets: ‘I just happened to be up there’ Dragging these flawed Cavs to the NBA Finals would be LeBron James’s most remarkable feat Charles Barkley apologizes for saying he wanted to punch Draymond Green in the face Why is there a snake on the Philadelphia 76ers’ court? Impressive as it was, the Pacers’ Victor Oladipo isn’t satisfied with his breakout season John Wall wants the Wizards to overhaul their roster. They likely won’t be able to. The Miami Heat bet big on Hassan Whiteside. It appears they made a mistake. Now what? The one-and-done rule is on the way out — because of NBA money, not NCAA morals It feels like the end of an era for the San Antonio Spurs After first-round sweep, Blazers’ next steps could include trading away their stars ‘All my best games I was medicated’: Matt Barnes on his game-day use of marijuana Adam Silver: One of the WNBA’s problems is that not enough young women pay attention to it NBA, Twitch reach deal on 2K League streaming rights   Comment Q&A Hop into the comments section below to chat with The Post’s Tim Bontemps about all of your NBA questions.