For years, the Washington Nationals have been a team better suited to hit left-handed pitching. The roster was built that way. But a combination of injuries and underperformance has flipped that strength in 2018. As the Nationals stand — and have stood for most of their first 31 games — they are a vastly superior offensive team when they face a right-handed pitcher. The Pittsburgh Pirates found that out for themselves this week. For the second straight night, the Nationals crushed Pirates righties behind Bryce Harper and Matt Adams, a pair of left-handed-hitting thumpers, in a 9-3 win at Nationals Park. The victory is the fourth straight for the Nationals (15-16), which marks their first four-game winning streak since they started the season 4-0. “Everybody swung the bat well,” Harper said. “One through nine, everybody contributed tonight.” A night after Harper led off for the first time since 2013, the right fielder saw more pitches to hit and inflicted more damage. He smashed his first career leadoff home run, a 416-foot blast to the second deck in right-center field off right-hander Ivan Nova. Two innings later, he led off the third with a double down the right field line and scored. He tallied another RBI and a steal in the fourth. The steal was his fourth, matching his 2017 season total. He finished 3 for 5, a triple shy of the cycle. [Wednesday’s box score: Nationals 9, Pirates 3] Adams, meanwhile, was back in the lineup at first base for Ryan Zimmerman after playing left field Tuesday and continued his career-long destruction of right-handed pitching. A couple of batters after Harper’s blast, he lifted a ball that carried through the hot night air over the left field wall for his third home run in two days. He tacked on an RBI single in the third inning, ignited the Nationals’ four-run fifth inning with a leadoff walk and walked again in the eighth. He began Wednesday with a .895 career on-base-plus-slugging percentage against righties — all-star-level production over seven-plus seasons — and a .586 mark against lefties. The former increased by the end of the night.The Nationals will continue putting him in the lineup whenever they face a right-hander even if that means having him play out of position in left field. His bat is that important as they play shorthanded without the likes of Anthony Rendon, Adam Eaton and Daniel Murphy. “Regular at-bats get my confidence up there,” Adams said, “and hopefully I can just continue to keep it rolling.” Every Nationals starter besides pitcher Stephen Strasburg had at least one hit. Wilmer Difo added two and Howie Kendrick collected three as the Nationals posted 14 total and scored runs in five of the eight innings. Each of their four outputs of 10 or more runs this season has been against a right-handed starting pitcher. They’re 12-8 overall against righties and 3-8 against left-handers. “They’re moving the ball,” Nationals Manager Dave Martinez said. “We talk about that all the time. We preach that every day. They’re starting to stay in the middle of the field in big moments. When they start doing that, things happen.” [Anthony Rendon is close to returning. Daniel Murphy … is not.] Before all the firepower, the balmy evening began with the Pirates (17-14) testing baseball’s maligned replay review system with challenges on consecutive plays. Both were centered on whether a Nationals middle infielder touched second base when attempting to turn a double play. So the first inning came to a standstill twice within a couple minutes. Pittsburgh’s first challenge went its way; the umpiring crew overturned an out call at second, ruling that Trea Turner never stepped on second base with the ball after 1 minute 25 seconds. The change left the bases loaded with one out. The second challenge, which scrutinized Kendrick’s turn at second base, went in Washington’s favor, though the Pirates drove home the game’s first run on the play. Strasburg threw pitches during the interruption, which lasted 1:52, before finally getting out of the inning with a strikeout. He had words for home plate umpire Eric Cooper as he walked off the mound. “I let my frustration with the situation kind of take it out on him,” Strasburg said. “And I apologized to him. He had nothing to do with it. I just thought it was pretty ridiculous altogether. Is that what baseball has come to?” If the point was to throw Strasburg off track, it may have succeeded because the right-hander didn’t look quite like himself early. Command eluded him. And the Pirates, who spent the first month crushing bad pitching, exploited some mistakes as Strasburg labored through four innings with his pitch count at 75. But he landed smoothly, retiring 13 of the final 15 batters he faced to push through seven innings having allowed three runs (two earned) on 104 pitches. He struck out 11 and walked one. The Nationals gave Strasburg a six-run cushion by the end of the fifth inning as they produced against another right-hander. Washington entered Wednesday ranked 11th with a .250 batting average against right-handed pitching while batting .220 against lefties, good for 25th. They will improve against lefties when Rendon returns from his injury, an arrival that could come as early as this weekend. But between Adams’s and Harper’s exploits; Turner’s reverse splits; injuries to Murphy, Eaton and Brian Goodwin; and Zimmerman’s and Michael A. Taylor’s struggles, they have been at their best with a righty standing 60 feet 6 inches away. They will face another one Thursday looking for a four-game series sweep.