MEXICO CITY — Mexico’s presidential hopefuls on Sunday evening demanded respect from President Trump and the United States, and sparred over how to confront the nation’s challenges, from dealing with deported migrants to the cross-border flows of drugs and guns. The second of three presidential debates before the July 1 presidential election was heavy on visual aids, with the candidates waving magazine covers, charts and a white bag that deported Mexican migrants receive to hold their belongings. At one point, candidate Ricardo Anaya held up a large photo of Trump, then a candidate himself, on a 2016 visit to Mexico to meet President Enrique Peña Nieto. “The problem began on this day,” Anaya said as he held the photo aloft, calling Trump’s invitation from Peña Nieto “not only an error, it was a humiliation for the Mexican people.” [36 local candidates have been assassinated in Mexico. And the election is still 2 months away.] The threats posed to Mexico by the Trump administration was the backdrop to the two-hour debate in Tijuana, with the four candidates discussing trade, immigration, and cross-border security issues. Mexico and the United States are in the midst of a difficult renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement and Trump has angered many in Mexico with his disparaging comments about Mexicans and blaming its government for not doing enough to stop Central American migrants from reaching the U.S. border. During Sunday’s debate, all of the candidates said they would demand respect from the Trump administration if elected while also expressing the importance of a good relationship with the United States. “You can’t appease tyrants and bullies. You have to confront them,” Anaya said, adding that he would negotiate all aspects of the bilateral relationship if he were elected president. So far in the election season, Trump has not proven to be an issue that separates the candidates, as all of them tend to criticize his comments as offensive and promise to protect Mexican migrants in the United States. None of the candidates made specific promises about how they would confront Trump or alter the dynamic in the relationship. “Trump is going to have to learn to respect us, that I can guarantee you,” said Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the front-runner in the race. Lopez Obrador, 64, a leftist candidate who has lost two previous presidential elections, vows to clean up corruption and pay more attention to Mexico’s rural poor. He has maintained a strong advantage in recent polls, leading by as much as 20 points in some surveys. In the debate, Lopez Obrador’s three opponents tried to paint him as an old, out-of-touch politician who has recycled his ideas over the years and who hasn’t adapted to modern times. While Lopez Obrador described them all as corrupt members of the same discredited political elite in Mexico. Much of the debate was taken up with the candidates trading insults, calling each other “hypocrites,” “liars,” and accusing each other of corruption and illicit wealth. On the question of the increasing opium poppy production in Mexico, and rising demand for heroin in the United States, Lopez Obrador said he wanted to push crop substitution programs and get poppy farmers in Mexico to switch to corn. Anaya said the United States has done nothing to stop guns flowing into Mexico and he wanted to the Trump administration to address this issue. Anaya, 39, from the right-leaning National Action Party, is now the candidate of a coalition of parties from different parts of the political spectrum. He has established himself as Lopez Obrador’s main challenger, polling ahead of Jose Antonio Meade, a former finance minister and the candidate of the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party. Lopez Obrador’s message has gained a wider following during this election cycle as many Mexicans have grown disenchanted with President Enrique Peña Nieto’s administration amid record violence and a string of corruption scandals. In the first debate, held last month, the candidates sought to attack Lopez Obrador and chip away at his advantage. They clashed over some of Mexico’s most pressing problems, from drug war violence to government corruption. Some of the proposals have been controversial, such as Lopez Obrador suggesting an amnesty for people involved in the drug trade; and the independent candidate, Jaime “El Bronco” Rodriguez, who proposed that public servants caught in acts of corruption should have their hands chopped off. Since that debate, the field has narrowed to four candidates after Margarita Zavala, the former first lady and former senator who was running as an independent, pulled out of the race last week. Zavala has not endorsed any of the remaining candidates. This has been the first year that independent candidates have been allowed to compete for the presidency but the established parties still have advantages and Zavala had failed gain traction in the polls. Lopez Obrador has campaigned as the anti-corruption candidate and has promised to divert funds that in the past were lost to corruption into development and social programs. He has alarmed some in the business community who are worried that he might roll back recent reforms, including the opening of Mexico’s oil industry, as well as halt the construction of a new multibillion dollar airport in Mexico City. The final debate is scheduled for June 12. Read more U.S. has been quietly helping Mexico with new, high-tech ways to fight opium Inside the Mexican towns that produce America’s heroin Mexico’s drug trade hits home Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news