Capitals forward Andre Burakovsky returned to the ice Friday morning, skating for the first time since he suffered an upper body injury in Washington’s first-round series win over Columbus and then had surgery. While Burakovsky’s participation in his team’s optional morning skate is encouraging, he is still listed as week-to-week by the team and it doesn’t appear that he’ll be ready to return in Washington’s series against Pittsburgh, which is tied at 2-2 after the Penguins won Game 4 on Thursday night. Burakovsky is still recovering from a hit he took from Boone Jenner in Game 2 of the first-round series against Columbus. Washington Coach Barry Trotz has not ruled Burakovsky out for the playoffs, but remained mum on his status on Friday morning. [Penguins dismiss fatigue factor after 59 playoff games in three seasons] Washington’s forward depth took another blow earlier this week when right wing Tom Wilson was suspended three games for his hit on Zach Aston-Reese in Game 3, which prompted Trotz to continue shuffling his lines and move Devante Smith-Pelly onto the first line on Thursday night. Samsonov signs The Capitals signed goaltender Ilya Samsonov to a three-year entry level deal that will begin next year, the team announced Friday. Samsonov, the 22nd overall pick in the 2015 NHL draft, will carry an average annual value of $925,000, and CapFriendly.com reported that it’s incentive-laden. Samsonov is considered one of the best goaltending prospects in the world, and he’s likely to start next season in the American Hockey League. The 21-year-old was 12-9-1 with a 2.31 goals against average and a .926 save percentage in 26 regular-season games with Metallurg Magnitogorsk in Russia’s Kontinental Hockey League. Washington’s organizational goaltending depth got stronger with the addition of Samsonov, but it also got more crowded. Braden Holtby is under contract for two more seasons, and backup goaltender Philipp Grubauer is a restricted free agent this summer. The Capitals also had prospects Vitek Vanecek and Pheonix Copley playing in the AHL. Read more on the Capitals: Capitals-Penguins means compelling hockey — and the focus on everything else ‘Hell yeah!’ Max Scherzer and the Nats remain all-in on the Capitals For one fan base at least in Capitals-Penguins series, Tom Wilson is a big hit The subtle secret to Sidney Crosby’s greatness