On Wednesday morning’s edition of “Fox & Friends,” co-host Ainsley Earhardt did people a public service by reading an important passage from the news-breaking New York Times article containing questions that special counsel Robert S. Mueller III wants to pose to President Trump. Zeroing in on how that list leaked to the newspaper, Earhardt read: The “New York Times is saying … they were read by special counsel investigators — these questions — to the president’s lawyers, who compiled them into a list and then provided to the Times by a person outside the president’s legal team,” she said, summarizing a portion of this story. Despite that wording, people all over the place have pointed the finger at Mueller for the leak. None other than Fox News host Sean Hannity railed that it was “clearly a leak by the special prosecutor’s office.” Tuesday’s edition of the noontime program “Outnumbered” on Fox News featured some special-counsel speculation as well: Back to “Fox & Friends.” After reading the provenance passage from the New York Times, Earhardt continued, “But then you have Republicans that are saying that it was leaked by the special counsel’s office, by Robert Mueller’s office. We don’t know.” Co-host Steve Doocy chimed in, “Nobody knows, except the reporter over at the New York Times.” That instance of throw-up-your-handsism came hours after The Post on Tuesday night furnished more details on the origin of this list: In the wake of the testy March 5 meeting, Mueller’s team agreed to provide the president’s lawyers with more specific information about the subjects that prosecutors wished to discuss with the president. With those details in hand, Trump lawyer Jay Sekulow compiled a list of 49 questions that the team believed the president would be asked, according to three of the four people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk publicly. The New York Times first reported the existence of the list. Now let’s examine how the logistics of the Mueller-question-leaking scenario might have proceeded: The special counsel’s team briefs Trump’s lawyers on their avenues of inquiry; Trump’s lawyers listen; Sekulow compiles a list of 49 questions; Mueller’s team, then, somehow, obtains that list of 49 questions; Mueller’s team leaks that list to the New York Times. Yeah, right. Read more from Erik Wemple: Fox News’s Sean Hannity busted again by Fox News The case for ‘Fox & Friends’ The ‘horror’ of President Trump’s dependence on ‘Fox & Friends’