People do many things before starting a media interview. They take a deep breath. They make small talk. They go over their notes. Mike Coupe, the CEO of British supermarket chain Sainsbury's, apparently sings show tunes. Coupe was preparing for a television interview to discuss the company's newly announced $10 billion deal to buy Walmart's British arm, Asda Group, when he quietly, impassively, began singing a familiar tune -- with the camera and audio on. "We're in the money, the sky is sunny," the CEO sang at a level just above a hum. "Let's lend it, spend it, send it rolling along." Sainsbury's CEO caught on film singing 'we're in the money'Read more: https://t.co/OD4qZkL9UB pic.twitter.com/8QcZvNEb4O The broadcaster, ITV, released the video, and from there, it was curtains for any hope of keeping it from going viral. Catching a CEO singing that song in that context -- the opening song from the film "Gold Diggers of 1933," a tune from the Broadway musical production of "42nd Street," and the theme "Marketplace"  listeners will recognize hearing on a day the stock market's up -- was, well, online gold. While some may find Coupe's rendition of "We're in the Money" video funny, it probably won't be to employees if the merger ends up leading to store closures or job losses (Sainsbury's CFO told Sky News, when pressed, that none are planned). If the deal goes through, Sainsbury's said the combination of the two chains would generate earnings "synergies" of around $681 million and create the largest grocer in Britain. Indeed, Coupe's on-air ditty had sparked plenty of blowback by Tuesday. GMB, a trade union in Britain that includes retail workers, asked "what on earth will Asda workers who are worrying about their futures think when they see this?" adding "it's not only crass, it's completely unprofessional and utterly insensitive." Others found it insensitive or showing "a complete lack of humility or compassion" for workers who faced planned job cuts or restructured roles in past months. A tweet by a reported employee said "spare a thought for all the families" while Jennie Formby, the general secretary of the Labor Party, said the incident "won’t be taken well by the thousands" of union workers worried about their jobs. I've just been issued with my notice of redundancy today after 23 years loyal service! Cheers Mike, it's lovely to hear you're having such a fantastic time! Spare a thought for all the families your decisions are affecting! Others winced at the blunder amid the news rollout and offered a reminder of what some called the first rule of P.R.: "If you're wearing a mic, and are in front of a camera, ALWAYS assume you are being recorded," tweeted one public relations "bloke." You’d think that PR would remind the Sainsbury’s chief about hot mics and cameras when sat in a…um…TV studio: https://t.co/miQNRgP34L Sainsbury's said in a statement reported by the Guardian that "to attach any wider meaning to this innocent, personal moment is preposterous;" noting that "we all know these songs stay in your head." In an emailed statement to The Washington Post, Coupe called it "an unguarded moment trying to compose myself before a TV interview. It was an unfortunate choice of song, from the musical '42nd Street,' which I saw last year and I apologize if I have offended anyone." Coupe, of course, is hardly the only leader to get caught on a hot mic doing something they'd prefer to keep private, with examples ranging from the highly damaging to the merely benign. There is, of course, the infamous 2005 "grab them by the p---y" moment between Donald Trump, and "Access Hollywood"'s Billy Bush. In 2010, former HP CEO and then-U.S. Senate candidate Carly Fiorina called the hairstyle of rival Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) "so yesterday" and questioning then-gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman's decision to appear on Sean Hannity's show. And in 2015, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg was confronted by German Chancellor Angela Merkel about racist comments on the social network, saying that "we need to do some work" and confirming he is working on it. However, whether because of the number of handlers present or live microphones around, it seems to happen more often to politicians than CEOs. Just to name a few: Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Sen. Jack Reed (D-R.I.) were recorded talking about President Trump last summer, saying "I think he's crazy" and "I'm worried." Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) was caught in September saying Trump "likes us. He likes me, anyway,” amid immigration deal negotiations. It happened to President Obama several times, speaking with former Russian President Dmitry Medvedev about "more flexibility" after the 2012 election, former French president Nicolas Sarkozy about Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and CNBC's John Harwood about what he thinks about Kanye West. Read also: The oddest, worst and most memorable CEO apologies of the year Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has apologized -- again Like On Leadership? Follow us on Facebook and Twitter, and subscribe to our podcast on iTunes.