Striking out in baseball used to be frowned upon. Now, it’s just the nature of the game. And for the first time ever, there could be more strikeouts than hits in a season. Last year, batters struck out in 21.6 percent of their plate appearances, a major league record for a full season. In the early goings of 2018 that has ticked higher still to 22.7 percent, which, if sustained, would be the 11th straight season the strikeout rate has increased. Batting averages, meanwhile, have dropped from .269 in 2006, the first year MLB instituted its leaguewide drug testing policy, to .245 heading into Friday night’s games. That would be the lowest in a season since 1972. [MLB tried to debunk the juiced ball theory amid historic home run spike] “One month is a rather small sample and we are hoping that the phenomenon of strikeouts exceeding hits is an anomaly that will not persist over the course of the season,” baseball Commissioner Rob Manfred said in an email to the Associated Press. Sorry Mr. Commissioner, but there’s no reason to expect it will change anytime soon. Start with the increased degree of difficulty for batters. Hitters face more-specialized relievers than ever before, with fresher arms available earlier in the game. Ten years ago it was common to see pitchers go through the batting order three or more times, facing 7.1 batters per game. Dating back to last season, that mark has dropped to 6.2 batters per game. As you would expect, the more a hitter sees a pitcher in a particular matchup, the better they do. For example, pitchers allowed a .247 average with a .724 OPS against the first time through the order but .273 with a .803 OPS against the third time through. By introducing more pitchers into games, hitters aren’t enjoying the benefit of that progressive familiarity. [Ichiro isn’t retiring, but he won’t plan and will still wear a uniform. It’s weird, man.] In addition, more and more batters are tailoring their swings to hit the ball hard in the air in an effort to smash more home runs. As a result, pitchers are less likely to throw pitches in the strike zone: as a group they threw more than half of their pitches in the zone in 2006 and are now targeting the zone just 43 percent of the time entering Friday night’s games. Meanwhile, hitters have become less afraid of chasing those pitches. Twelve years ago hitters swung at 23 percent of pitches out of the zone; that has bumped up to 30 percent in 2018. Plus, umpires are better at calling strikes. A decade ago, the first year data is available, less than 75 percent of pitches in the strike zone were called strikes, but that has since improved to 85 percent in 2017 and over 86 percent this season. Plus, pitchers are inducing more swinging strikes (12 percent vs. 9 percent in 2008) than ever before. Some may “dig the long ball,” others may find strikeouts “sexy,” but the emphasis on the former has helped increase the latter and MLB is confronted with a scenario in which hitters are shuffling back to the dugout after strike three more often than they’re sprinting to first base. And that doesn’t even mention an increase in walks in recent years. The problem for baseball is that makes for a pretty boring game. In fact, once you account the three true outcomes —  home runs, walks and strikeouts — as a percentage of all plate appearances, more than a third of all outcomes don’t involve the fielders at all. And that’s troublesome to at least one MLB executive. “From an entertainment value, does this concern me? Yes, it does,” a head of baseball operations for a MLB team told Joel Sherman of the New York Post. “We need, as an industry, to make the game more watchable and I am not sure we are trending in that way.”