In 2013, the Chicago school district closed 49 elementary schools and one high school program in the face of a $1 billion deficit, the largest mass school closure in the country’s modern history. Schools officials and Mayor Rahm Emanuel made this promise to nearly 12,000 mostly African American students from families living in poverty: When you are sent to a new school, there will be better opportunities for academic success. But a new report says that isn’t exactly what happened. Researchers at the University of Chicago’s Consortium on School Research just released a report (see below) looking at what happened when the schools were closed five years ago and the effects on students. The researchers found multiple problems. Academic achievement — as measured by standardized test scores, which has been favored by Emanuel — went down. Closing schools has been a favored tool among school reformers who have tried to operate public schools as if they were businesses rather than civic institutions. Though research has shown that promised academic gains don’t materialize, reformers have closed schools anyway, sometimes because they were underused or persistently low performers, or to address financial woes. [What research really says about closing schools — and why it’s a bad idea for kids] The University of Chicago researchers did six in-depth case studies of schools to write their report, which looks at the short-term and multi-year effects of the closures on students’ academic, behavioral and other outcomes. They sought to answer two questions about the school closings, which were strongly opposed by the affected communities: The fundamental answer to both questions: not at all well. The researchers found the following, taken from the report: To support the move, the district provided some funding to the welcoming schools to improve technology and resources and to create “Safe Passage,” a program that hires workers to stand along designated walkways before and after school to help keep students from harm. The report said students and staff appreciated those investments, but wished they had been longer term. Chicago officials were warned by parents, educators and others that the plan to close so many schools would not work as promised. In fact, the Chicago Sun-Times editorial board wrote a piece saying just that after the release of the report: We told you so. Parents, community activists, teachers, education experts and this editorial page all warned City Hall back in 2013 that closing dozens of schools in one fell swoop was a bad idea. And if Mayor Rahm Emanuel still didn’t get it, plenty of research sounded the same warning: School closings can really set kids back, academically and socially. In 2013, Chicago placed a five-year moratorium on school closings, and that is just about to end. More closings of public schools are expected. Will Chicago officials learn anything from their last closures? Here’s the report: