The Washington Redskins signed seven of their eight picks from last month’s draft on Thursday, the eve of the team’s rookie minicamp. Da’Ron Payne (first round), Derrius Guice (second), Troy Apke (fourth), Tim Settle (fifth), Shaun Dion Hamilton (sixth), Greg Stroman (seventh) and Trey Quinn (seventh) all signed their deals at Redskins Park and are expected to participate in the three-day minicamp. [Redskins rookie minicamp: Five things to watch when the action begins Friday] Payne is the first first-round pick to sign a deal and NFL.com reported the Alabama defensive tackle received a four-year, $14.4 million fully-guaranteed contract with an $8.56 million signing bonus. Other contract details were not immediately available. Third-round offensive tackle Geron Christian is the lone draftee that remains unsigned. The Redskins also signed 14 undrafted free agents last week. Rookie minicamp starts Friday afternoon with organized team activities set to begin on May 22. “We do feel good about our draft, but as you know, we still have got to put the pads on and we have got to watch them play,” said Doug Williams, senior vice president of player personnel, after the draft. “It takes a little time to really evaluate where they really are and that’s what we’re going to do.” [Redskins part with longtime personnel executive Scott Campbell] Payne was taken at No. 13 overall as the top run-stopper in the draft. Guice slid to No. 59 overall due to character concerns, but the LSU running back is expected to start from Day 1 and help improve a run game that ranked No. 28 in the league. Christian should add a high-level swing tackle to the roster, once signed, and add insurance to an offensive line that was decimated by injuries last season. Apke, a safety out of Penn State, ran the second-fastest 40-yard dash (4.34 seconds) among defensive backs at the NFL Combine and Settle (Virginia Tech) was a value pick for a weak defensive line after having a second-to-third round grade from NFL.com. Hamilton served as a captain as an Alabama linebacker, but struggled with injuries the last two seasons. Defensive back Stroman (Virginia Tech) and wide receiver Quinn (SMU) were upside picks that could immediately contribute on special teams. More on the Redskins: Jay Gruden says Redskins’ first-round pick Da’Ron Payne is ‘not just a run stopper’ After Redskins trade down, running back Derrius Guice falls right to them A closer look at how first-round pick Da’Ron Payne fits in the Redskins’ defense