When Kanye West made his comments about slavery, many fans, activists and fellow celebrities were quick to voice their shock and outrage. Now, basketball legend Kobe Bryant has joined the fray, speaking out about the rapper’s claim during a recent event in Los Angeles. Bryant was addressing hundreds of high school students at We Rise, an arts and community-building festival, when he was asked about how he felt when West called U.S. slavery a “choice.” “I’m sure the same way everybody else in this room feels — ‘What the hell are you talking about?’ ” Bryant said, eliciting laughs. “I think that was my reaction, as is everybody else’s reaction.” West was doing an interview on “TMZ Live” this month when he made the statement. “When you hear about slavery for 400 years — for 400 years?” West said. “That sounds like a choice. Like, you was there for 400 years and it’s all of y’all? It’s like we’re mentally in prison.” West’s opinions prompted an on-air rebuke from TMZ’s Van Lathan, as well as criticism from other public figures. Black Lives Matter activist DeRay Mckesson tweeted that “Kanye’s rhetoric continues to fuel the racist right-wing folks who believe that black people are responsible for their oppression.” Author Roxane Gay also took to Twitter to say that the rapper isn’t a “free thinker,” calling him a “free moron who doesn’t read” instead. Other people in the music world also criticized West. Stevie Wonder called the idea “foolishness.” “There’s been a lot of talk about what was said by Kanye,” Wonder said. “I want people to understand that the truth is the truth and a lie is a lie.” “We all know that slavery was not a choice,” he added. “So I just think that people need to understand that if you know your history, if you know the truth, you know that’s just foolishness.” On “Good Morning Britain,” Black Eyed Peas member will.i.am said he was heartbroken by West’s comment. “That statement was one of the most ignorant statements that anybody who came from the hood could ever say about their ancestors, that slavery is a choice,” he said. In tweets that have since been deleted, West clarified his comments, The Washington Post’s Marwa Eltagouri reported. “Of course I know that slaves did not get shackled and put on a boat by free will,” West wrote. “My point is for us to have stayed in that position even though the numbers were on our side means that we were mentally enslaved.” “They cut our tongues so we couldn’t communicate to each other,” he added. “I will not allow my tongue to be cut.” In his response Tuesday, Bryant acknowledged that West, as an American, has the right to express his opinion, but said he should be prepared to take the responses that come as a result. Bryant also made it clear that he does not support the rapper’s views, saying he was “shocked just like everybody else.” “I think, for him, he’s one of these entertainers that’s always in a constant state of growth, he’s always challenging, not us as people, but really himself,” Bryant said about West. “He’s doing a lot of questioning internally himself, so I just take it for what it is and completely disagree.”