The Celtics and Cavaliers are all tied up in the Eastern Conference finals. Boston is undefeated in the postseason at home. Can LeBron James and Co. get a win at TD Garden tonight? Follow along with live updates during the game and jump into the comments to ask NBA reporter Tim Bontemps questions. It may have taken a fracas to turn this game around for the Cavaliers. Now down 36-19 early in the second quarter, there has been a lengthy review. Marcus Morris fouled Larry Nance, Jr. when he was in the air, sending Nance falling to the ground and then standing over him and taunting him. As Morris walked away, Nance got up and shoved him in the back, leading to both teams getting animated and both players needing to be separated. After said lengthy review, the officials determined both Morris and Nance got technicals – as did Terry Rozier – meaning Cleveland got a free throw out of the deal. Then, after Kyle Korver hit the free throw, he hit a three, followed by Nance finishing a putback off an offensive rebound as Cleveland has slowly begun to chip away at Boston’s lead.   The opening minutes of Game 5 between the Cavaliers and Celtics have been the kind of topsy-turvy, tense and entertaining ones you’d expect from two teams that split the first four games. Then the Celtics went on a 16-4 run over the final 4:14 to take a 32-19 lead after one. The danger signs are already present for Cleveland. Despite a strong start, Kevin Love has two fouls, Boston has already banged home six threes and Cleveland has committed five turnovers that have turned into six Cavaliers points. Moving Aron Baynes into the starting lineup for Marcus Morris has had the desired effect for Boston – namely allowing Baynes to stick to Tristan Thompson and keep Thompson away for Al Horford. Cleveland hasn’t recorded a single offensive rebound yet, and Thompson was a non-factor – both of which are good signs for Boston.   The stage is set for LeBron James to do something spectacular. He may have to if the Cleveland Cavaliers are going to do what no team has during these playoffs: win a game in Boston. The Celtics are a perfect 9-0 in this postseason – which is the only reason they are still playing, given they are a dismal 1-6 on the road, after losing both Games 3 and 4 in Cleveland to allow the Cavaliers to even the Eastern Conference finals at two games apiece. Now, though, the ultimate set piece is in place: The best player in the game today going to the place of some of both his greatest triumphs and lowest defeats, needing to summon something special to beat a game young opponent. What could be better than that? The question, though, is whether James will be able to do that. His supporting cast is spotty. Boston’s role players have been far, far better at home (hence the team’s home-road splits in these playoffs). With a third game happening in five days, fatigue could become a factor – and no one is carrying a heavier burden in these playoffs than James is, and doing so at 33 years old, no less. But all of that will only add to the drama of what should be a terrific atmosphere in Boston. This could wind up being one of the iconic moments of a legendary career, with a win putting Cleveland in position to make the NBA Finals for a fourth straight year – and for James to make it for an eighth straight time. Now, all eyes turn to James, to see if one of the greatest players this sport has ever seen can conjure up a moment worthy of the occasion – and one good enough to lift Cleveland to a much-needed win.   Schedule: Cleveland Cavaliers at Boston Celtics, 8:30 p.m. TNT (series tied 2-2)   Additional reading: The Warriors’ unbalanced roster is catching up with them at the worst possible time Rockets draw even with Warriors in Western Conference finals The graybeard Cavaliers have turned experience into their best weapon against the Celtics The Cavaliers were left for dead. Now, it feels like their series to lose. Only Steph Curry can make the Warriors the most dangerous version of themselves The NBA Finals blueprint for the Cavs, Celtics, Rockets and Warriors If the Rockets are going to get back into this Warriors series, they must play faster With all these blowouts in the NBA playoffs, will fans stop paying attention? Stephen Curry’s mom scolded him over his potty mouth Luka Doncic should go No. 1 and other thoughts from the NBA draft combine In Cavaliers-Celtics, a tale of two coaches: Scorn for Tyronn Lue, praise for Brad Stevens At the NBA draft combine, mystery is more valuable than getting on the court Draymond Green trademarks ‘Hampton 5,’ doesn’t seem to realize it’s not The Hamptons Faced with a make-or-break moment, the Rockets responded like champions If the Rockets beat the Warriors, Clint Capela will be the reason LeBron James may have had a lousy Game 1, but he still has a mind like a steel trap LeBron James owns the NBA’s Eastern Conference and isn’t ready to let go What I got wrong about the Boston Celtics James Harden’s biggest advantage is his brain The Rockets can limit the effectiveness of the Warriors’ ‘Hamptons Five’ lineup Steve Kerr touts Warriors’ experience edge over Rockets: ‘Our guys have rings’ Rockets are the toughest playoff opponent Steve Kerr’s Warriors have ever faced Pau Gasol: ‘Becky Hammon can coach NBA basketball. Period.’ Dragging these flawed Cavs to the NBA Finals would be LeBron James’s most remarkable feat   Comment Q&A Hop into the comments section below to chat with The Post’s Tim Bontemps about all of your NBA questions.