House Republicans made a calculated decision eight years ago as they began their campaign for the majority: They wanted a weak speaker. So their 2010 campaign-style document — “A Pledge to America,” crafted at the time by a backbench Republican, Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) — vowed to reform the process and empower rank-and-file lawmakers to take part in drafting policy. Leaders were forbidden from rushing bills to the House floor and forced to demonstrate the constitutional veracity of any bill introduced. The “Pledge” did not cure the disease of legislative dysfunction. But Republicans sure have succeeded in weakening the House speaker in terms of dictating the outcome of legislative battles and in exposing the current occupant to periodic eviction threats. Now, eight years later, as McCarthy’s allies rally support for his own bid for speaker, one thing is all but certain: If McCarthy, currently the No. 2 GOP leader, ever does claim the gavel, he will almost certainly be a weak speaker worried about ideological threats within the House Republican Conference. Officially, there is no race to succeed House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) and no effort to usher him out the door sooner than his intended plan to retire after the November elections. “Let me be very clear that I read that report. The report’s not true. When they brought it to me, it’s not true,” McCarthy protested to reporters at Tuesday’s leadership news conference. If Kevin McCarthy wants to be speaker, this may be his biggest obstacle He was referencing comments by White House budget director Mick Mulvaney, a former member of the House. Mulvaney told attendees at a Colorado resort’s weekend retreat that he had discussed the idea of having Ryan step down sooner with McCarthy and having the vote for speaker immediately. Coming soon after last week’s failed farm vote, amid a centrist and right-flank uprising on immigration policy, Mulvaney’s comments appeared to be a shot across the bow at Ryan. The lame duck speaker has been forced to defend his own hold on power, particularly after the usually reliable centrists bucked leadership by joining ranks with Democrats on a petition that would force a contentious immigration debate. “Look, the members drafted me into this job because of who I am and what I stand for. I think members very much agree that what we should be doing is completing our agenda and our work,” Ryan said. But what is happening now inside Ryan’s caucus, on immigration policy and among angling to replace him, is largely the same dynamic that has bedeviled Republicans since John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) became House speaker in January 2011. Boehner wanted his leadership team to be different than both of his predecessors, Democrat Nancy Pelosi (Calif.) and Republican J. Dennis Hastert (Ill.). Fellow Democrats talked about Pelosi’s iron-fist style of governance, while Hastert used his top lieutenant, Tom DeLay (R-Tex.), to play the role of the “Hammer.” So Boehner intentionally wanted to throw the House open so that things would work from the ground up, involving as many lawmakers as possible. The result was not exactly pretty. One faction, a group of about 30 or so staunch conservatives, has demanded ideological purity on issue after issue — leaving Boehner, then Ryan, short of the tallies they needed to pass critical legislation with only Republican votes. The chaotic nature of the debate often left committee chairmen less powerful, as key parts of important legislation had to be resolved in closed-door meetings inside the speaker’s office with the last holdouts. Rank-and-file lawmakers complain about not being part of the process, and barely having more than 36 hours to read complicated bill text. Once Democrats know the speaker needs their votes for passage, each bill has to move much more toward the middle ground. And with every bill that passes with Democratic votes, the Republican speaker loses a bit more stature. The most precarious vote eventually became what should have been the most routine vote: the ballot for speaker. Because it’s a constitutional office, following the vice president in the line of presidential succession, the entire House must vote for speaker. Usually, each side nominates their leader and everyone votes along party lines. But the conservative hard-liners, who formally aligned themselves in the Freedom Caucus in 2015, realized that if they held out their votes for Boehner, or Ryan, the Republican would not have a majority and could not claim the speaker’s gavel. The conservatives think that this gives them leverage to get their demands addressed on policy positions or internal committee assignments. They came within a couple of votes of defeating Boehner’s 2013 bid for speaker, and when Boehner resigned in late 2015, Ryan only agreed to take the post after assurances from Freedom Caucus leaders that they would not block him on the floor vote. Paul Ryan can’t wash his hands of the immigration fight yet Some Republicans see the vote to succeed Ryan as a guaranteed ideological throwdown that will bitterly divide their ranks. “I couldn’t imagine the turmoil,” Rep. Chris Collins (R-N.Y.), from the centrist Tuesday Group, said. Collins warned that any conservative demands “risk the ire” of centrist Republicans, which is why he wants Ryan to stay in office through the election rather than add a leadership contest to the already bitter feuding over immigration policy. Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), a Freedom Caucus leader, gave his most open nod toward his interest in running against McCarthy for speaker. “If and when there’s a speaker race, I expect to be part of that discussion,” Jordan said Tuesday. He would not have enough support to win an internal Republican secret ballot, but Jordan would probably hold enough votes to block McCarthy, the majority leader, from getting a majority on the House floor. He could then demand concessions from McCarthy, or see whether House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) would grant his concessions to win the speaker vote. Ultimately, President Trump would probably have to come in and throw his support behind McCarthy or Scalise to settle the feud. Such an outcome, whether the vote were to happen this spring or in the fall, would take the already weak job of House speaker and further erode the stature of the post. Read more from Paul Kane’s archive, follow him on Twitter or subscribe to his updates on Facebook.