President Trump is insisting that “a real wall” on the U.S.-Mexico border be included in any immigration bill that emerges from Congress if lawmakers want his signature. In a television interview that aired Thursday, Trump reacted to an effort underway in the House to force votes on bills protecting young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Centrists have been building support for a maneuver called a discharge petition that would prompt votes on a series of immigration bills, including a measure that would provide permanent legal status for the young immigrants, known as “dreamers.” That group includes those protected from deportation under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program that Trump has canceled. “Unless it improves a wall, and I mean a wall, a real wall, and unless it improves very strong border security, there’ll be no approvals from me, because I have to either approve it or not,” Trump said during an interview on “Fox & Friends” on Fox News that was taped Wednesday. [House GOP holds last-ditch immigration talks as showdown looms] Trump also said he is not inclined to support legislation that addresses DACA and a border wall, but does not make other changes he is seeking in what he called the “worst immigration laws in the entire world.” “I think it’s time to get the whole package,” Trump said. Trump is also seeking to limit family immigration, which he refers to as “chain migration,” as well as a diversity visa lottery that has awarded about 50,000 green cards annually to people from countries with low immigration rates to the United States. “Chain migration is a disaster, and you look at what’s going on where somebody comes in who’s bad and yet they’ll have 23 members of a family, not one of them do you want in this country,” Trump said on “Fox & Friends. “So chain migration is terrible, the lottery is terrible, we certainly would like to have it end.” Last month, Trump threatened to shut down the federal government in September if Congress did not provide more funding to build a border wall. Mike DeBonis contributed to this report.