It has happened in moments serious and small, in the thick of a game or during a heated practice drill or while the Maryland women’s lacrosse team lounged in the locker room: Coach Cathy Reese would yell “Meg!” and four pairs of eyes whipped around to meet hers. “I could not handle a fifth Meg on this team,” Reese said. “Four is more than enough.” They are not just any four players on Reese’s roster, which heads into the NCAA tournament as the top overall seed with a good chance to win a second straight national title and the 14th in program history. Maryland’s four Meg(h)ans — Megan Whittle, Megan Taylor, Meghan Doherty and Meghan Siverson — are all key contributors for the Terrapins, who will start their tournament run on Sunday at home against the winner of an opening-round game Friday between Denver and High Point. Whittle is the program’s all-time leading scorer; the senior netted a career-high eight goals in a Big Ten tournament semifinal win over Penn State last weekend. Siverson, a junior midfielder who transferred from Louisville before this season, has 20 goals this spring. Doherty is one of the anchors of Maryland’s stout defense and Taylor is the starting goaltender, and those two juniors have helped the team go 41-1 from the start of last season to now. They often all play at the same time, meaning four of Maryland’s 11 players on the field are not only tasked with sharing a little white ball, but also sharing a name. [Pop quiz, Whittle: Name the two career games when you failed to score] Communication is, if nothing else, weird. But as with just about anything lacrosse-related, Maryland has it down to a science. Taylor is “Meggy T.,” Doherty is “Meg D.,” Siverson is “Meg S.” or just “Meg” and Whittle is always “Whittle.” A short sound bite from a Maryland practice or game, if the team was moving the ball from its own goal to the other team’s, could go something like this: Good save, Meggy T.! Pass it out, Meggy T.! . . . Meg D.! Go, Meg D.! Over here, Meg D.! . . . Pass it to Meg! No, the other Meg! Meg S.! Yeah, that one! . . . Find Caroline! . . . Over to Jen! . . . Okay now back to Megan! I mean Whittle! Pass to Whittle! . . . Goal! “It can get a little crazy sometimes,” Siverson said. “But luckily we are broken up into different parts of the field. We have Meg in goal, Meg on defense, Meg in the midfield and Meg on attack, so it actually works itself out pretty well.” Megan was the 10th-most popular name for baby girls in the 1990s, according to a U.S. Social Security database. Of the 160,354 girls named Megan from 1990 to 1999, two were so good at lacrosse that they ended up with the best college program in the sport’s history. Two others had an “h” added to the middle of their name, but that did not hurt their chances of achieving the same success. How three of them got their birth name also follows a trend. Whittle on being named Megan: “I think my mom liked Megan, so I was Megan.” Taylor on being named Megan: “My mom picked the name, I’m pretty sure. So that was that.” Siverson on being named Meghan: “I know my mom loved the name Meghan. She had final say on that one.” The story of Doherty’s name takes a sharp turn. “My mom didn’t want me to be Meghan and my dad really fought for it. My mom wanted me to be Maurade, which is kind of a funny name,” Doherty said. “Moms usually win. But there are six of us in my family and I’m the youngest, so my dad finally got the W with one of our names.” And now here they all are, four Meg(h)ans trying to push the Terrapins to another national championship and not get too confused along the way. The coaches strictly use their nicknames — “I would only call Megan Whittle ‘Megan’ if I were mad at her, and I don’t think I’ve ever been mad at her,” Reese said — because it is the easiest way to avoid miscommunication. Siverson has stopped looking up when someone says “Meg” in the locker room, assuming they will say “Meg S.” if they need her. Whittle and Taylor grew up playing field hockey together and are used to not being the only Megan on a team. But since Whittle is a senior and the other three Meg(h)ans are juniors, there was one season at Maryland when she did not have to share her name with a teammate or two or three. When someone said “Meg” she could turn without hesitation. She was free. She was . . . “Oh no, wait,” Whittle said, putting her right pointer finger in the air. “Megan Douty was on that team. I don’t think I’ve ever been on a team without another Megan.” More from Post Sports: Hall of Fame pitcher Jim Palmer long wondered if he’s related to JFK. At 72, he learned the truth. Navy women’s lacrosse entered an era of success when its battling twins stuck together Maryland men’s and women’s lacrosse teams earn No. 1 seeds in NCAAs Blackistone: It’s not wrong to say college sports is like slavery. It’s wrong that no one’s trying to fix that.