PITTSBURGH — This was never going to end in five games. It just wasn’t, and if you allowed that little sliver of a thought to enter your brain at some point on a sunny Thursday afternoon, well, suppress it and hang on. When the Washington Capitals lost the opener of their second-round Stanley Cup playoff series against the Pittsburgh Penguins last week, Barry Trotz, their coach, said matter-of-factly, “It’s going to be a long series.” And guess what? It’s going to be a long series. Nothing was determined in Thursday night’s 3-1 victory for the Penguins, other than, whatever happens Saturday in Washington, there absolutely will be a sixth game back here Monday night. The series is even at two games apiece. Mark your calendar. Get the chores done while you can. Maybe even leave open Wednesday — and grab the airsickness bag — for yet another Game 7? “We said we wanted to come here and at least, at minimum, get this thing to a best of three,” Trotz said. “Well, we’ve done that.” [Capitals-Penguins series tied, but frustrations mount for Washington after missed chance] This is such an odd feeling after such an important game. A Capitals playoff loss is usually followed by some sense of dread, some measure of self-loathing and regret. It might be for an opportunity squandered. It might be for a mistake that never should have been committed. But there’s almost always that pit-of-the-stomach uneasiness that becomes so familiar this time of year. Even this spring, that has held true. In their three previous losses this postseason — two to Columbus and that opener to Pittsburgh — the Capitals coughed up two-goal leads. There were reasonable questions about their ability to protect advantages they built, angst about losses that should have been wins and analysis about what it all meant. It felt, in a word, normal. Go back to their past two second-round series against the Penguins, which came each of the past two years. There were, then, significant misgivings at this point in the series. Each time, the Capitals trailed, two games to one, headed into the fourth game. Each time, they lost a one-goal game in this arena. Each time, they headed back to Washington facing a stark situation: Win or enjoy the summer. Now, though, there’s — is this possible? — calm. “We feel positive,” forward T.J. Oshie said. Strange. It didn’t feel forced or contrived. There’s an argument to be made that this is a different situation than these Capitals have faced against the Penguins recently. Thursday night brought no real controversy. It was a tightly played, well-defended game on both sides. There was no goat, no gag. The Capitals lost, and yet what do you pick apart? That Alex Ovechkin didn’t have a shot on net? Sure, fine. That stat came 48 hours after he scored the game-winner, and he had managed five goals in the previous four games. Sixty shotless minutes don’t make a slump. “Trust me,” Trotz said. “Ovi will get his shots.” Given he led the league in that category, that’s an easy statement to trust. But there also seems as if there’s a little more to trust here. Maybe they will crumble and collapse. But there are at least two games left in this series. And it seems, since the Capitals arrived here, they got sturdier. “We’re building a belief that we can beat these guys,” defenseman Matt Niskanen said. “We know we’re going to have to play really well, but it’s possible. We think we can do it.” [Tom Wilson’s most controversial hits, from Brayden Schenn to Zach Aston-Reese] There are, of course, obstacles, and they’re significant. For the Capitals, Game 4 — and the two games to follow — were going to be colored by the absence of Tom Wilson, suspended for his jaw-breaking hit on Penguins rookie Zach Aston-Reese midway through the third game Tuesday night. The actual strategic impact of Wilson’s suspension would be felt on Washington’s penalty kill, as well as on the line centered by Evgeny Kuznetsov, on which Wilson plays the wing opposite Ovechkin. But there was also a clear sense in the Washington dressing room that the three-game suspension was — well, let Oshie articulate it. “The discipline, I think it’s pretty extreme,” Oshie said. “I think it’s very extreme, actually.” No one in Pittsburgh agreed with that assessment. But Oshie, following the Capitals’ morning skate, did his best to say that what Washington perceived as an injustice — a sentiment shared by its fan base, for sure — would provide incentive and focus to a group that really didn’t need either in extra doses. “We had a sense of confidence, and I think any arrogance that could have [resulted] from our last couple victories I think has been squashed from the fact that we’re losing Tom,” Oshie said. “He’s been taken away from us for a couple games here, and we’re fired up to play, and we want to win the game for him.” Didn’t work out that way. But the sentiment is sound: Flip adversity into resilience. There is a real issue in that Wilson’s absence upset the chemistry of the Capitals’ lineup, and the Caps already are without forward Andre Burakovsky, who hasn’t played in this series after suffering a lower-body injury against Columbus. Take away Wilson, move Devante Smith-Pelly up to the top line, throw in Pittsburgh’s defensive commitment on a night when space and time were hard to find, and you get just one goal and 21 shots against vulnerable Pittsburgh goalie Matt Murray. “If you play Pittsburgh, you’re not going to win when you score one goal,” veteran center Nicklas Backstrom said. “We need more.” They will, indeed, need more. The Capitals’ history with the Penguins is, of course, deep. Until it changes, we can only lean on that past: 10 previous series and nine losses for Washington. [Crosby again has a hand in everything as Penguins knot series with Capitals] But this is the fourth postseason meeting between Ovechkin’s Capitals and Sidney Crosby’s Penguins. Only in 2009, that first matchup, were the Caps even after four games. Then they lost the fifth game in overtime when defenseman Milan Jurcina was called for tripping, and Evgeni Malkin scored to lift the Penguins to the series lead. But in those three previous three series, the Capitals and Penguins have played 20 of a possible 21 games. Why would this one be any different? “Keep believing,” Niskanen said. Maybe they will lose, like they always have before. But after an unusually normal loss that merely served to even the series, the people in that dressing room, they seem to be following that directive. For more by Barry Svrluga, visit washingtonpost.com/svrluga. Read more on the Capitals: Capitals-Penguins means compelling hockey — and the focus on everything else ‘Hell yeah!’ Max Scherzer and the Nats remain all-in on the Capitals For one fan base at least in Capitals-Penguins series, Tom Wilson is a big hit The subtle secret to Sidney Crosby’s greatness