It’s time for the 144th running of the Kentucky Derby, “the most exciting two minutes in sports.” It’s the best excuse to dress up, wear a fancy hat and get sloshed that doesn’t require an invitation from the queen. Who are you betting on? One of the favorites? A 50-1 long shot? Neil Greenberg’s pick? What do you mean you aren’t betting? Are you intimidated by Saturday’s race program? The fast-paced betting counters? The confusing lingo? Never fear: We’ve got you covered for this year’s race. You don’t have to be a degenerate gambler to sound like a betting pro this year. Pick a race, place a wager and have fun cheering on your horse. You might even win some money in the process. [2018 Kentucky Derby: Literally everything you need to know] Types of bets Let’s start with the basic bets you can make on a race. These are all straight bets on a single race. Nice and easy. All the other types of bets are built on these first basic concepts: If the basic bets aren’t doing it for you, try an exotics bet. These are next-level bets that require you to pick multiple horses correctly. If you pick right, your payout potential is higher than on the single bets above, but the odds are against you with these: You can also box these bets, meaning you pick any number of horses in the hope they cross the finish line first in any order. These bets are a little more expensive, however, because you’re actually making more than one wager on each ticket. A $2 trifecta box bet on three horses, for example, will cost you $12 because there are six possible outcomes. If you’re feeling really lucky, multi-race bets take it a step further, but they’re incredibly hard to pick right. There is nothing more heartbreaking that picking the first two of a pick three just to watch your horse fade down the homestretch. Here are a few of the types: Placing a bet Now that you know what bet you’re making on which horse, it’s time to place your bet. Skip the automatic tellers. They have huge lines and can be confusing, and half the fun of placing a bet is being able to say the words out loud like Jay Trotter in “Let It Ride.” First, when you approach the counter, be ready. Betting counters are moving fast — a cross between your K Street Starbucks at 7:59 a.m. and the trading floor of the NYSE at 3:59 p.m. Numbers are being called out and money is exchanging hands. Don’t be the person who grinds your line to a halt because you forgot which race you were betting on. Here’s the simple order to remember: race number, bet amount, type of bet and your horse’s program number, e.g., “Race four, $2 to place on the No. 5 horse” or “race six, $5 trifecta on one-three-seven”. Give the teller the money and hang on to that ticket. No ticket, no winnings. [Don’t pick any of the favorites to win the Kentucky Derby] Betting away from the track How much does this pay out? Understanding betting odds is easy. If the odds are 5-1 and you bet $2, the result is $2×5/1+$2, or a $12 payout. Picking a horse How do you pick a winner? Who knows. That’s why it’s called gambling. But you can start by picking up a race program and a copy of the Daily Racing Form. These are usually only a few bucks each. Between these two, you’ve got more than enough information to keep you occupied. Deciphering a race program can be daunting, especially after you’ve had a few mint juleps. Lucky for you, every race program in the U.S. is created by the same company, Equibase, and they have created a nifty interactive to help. Play around before heading to the track. There is a lot of great information on these sheets, including trainer record; placings by year, by track and at race distance; and details from the horse’s recent races. Have fun debating the merits of each piece of information with your friends. Does it matter that the horse won his last few starts? What about past performance on current track conditions? Has he never raced this distance before? How much weight is the horse carrying? Has this jockey won a Triple Crown event before? Has the jockey ridden this horse before? Also, consider the odds. They do matter. The odds are picked by the race handicapper based on the horse’s ability and how people are betting. More importantly, the race favorite wins 33 percent of the time, places 53 percent of the time and shows 67 percent of the time. You can also take a stroll down to the paddock and take a look at the horses before the race. If you’re having trouble deciding between two horses, seeing them pre-race could go a long way in determining which one you bet on. Is your horse spry and alert? Are they jittery? Every horse has its day, but maybe the horse you liked in the program looks like it hit the town last night and is far from ready to run. [Which Kentucky Derby post positions have produced the most winners?] Type of tracks There are two tracks at Churchill Downs. The main track is the dirt oval track, on which the Derby is run. It is one mile in circumference. Inside of the main track is the turf track, which is seven-eighths in circumference. The two track types have different track conditions. For dirt, tracks can be fast, good, cuppy, muddy, sloppy and slow. For turf, tracks can be firm, good, soft or heavy. Horses run differently in different conditions. Some horses can win in muddy conditions, but never place on fast tracks. A horse’s history in different track conditions can be found in the Daily Racing Form with the rest of the horse’s racing history. A few extra terms Read more Kentucky Derby coverage: The Kentucky Derby field is dominated by a horse who died in 2015 Justify? Solomini? How the Kentucky Derby horses get their names. Expert picks for the 2018 Kentucky Derby In the 1882 Kentucky Derby, Apollo pulled off a feat that’s still unmatched Dancer’s Image, drugs and MLK: The enduring mystery of the 1968 Kentucky Derby The 2018 Kentucky Derby has a slew of star power and a slew of favorites If there is rain at the 2018 Kentucky Derby, Bolt d’Oro is still the horse to beat Best bets for the 2018 Kentucky Derby include Bolt d’Oro and other long shots