Steven Komarow, a journalist who covered politics and war zones and who had been executive editor of the Capitol Hill publication CQ Roll Call for the last two years, died April 29 at a hospital in Washington. He was 61 and a resident of McLean, Va. He had glioblastoma, a form of brain cancer, but the immediate cause was complications from a fall, said his wife, Stephanie Bolick. Mr. Komarow spent nearly 20 years with AP — 1978 to 1993, and 2006 to 2010 — and rose to become deputy chief of AP’s Washington bureau before leaving for Bloomberg News to steer defense, justice and White House coverage. In 2015, he joined CQ Roll Call as vice president and news director before his elevation a year later to executive editor and senior vice president. He also worked for a dozen years for USA Today, covering wars in Afghanistan and Iraq before returning to AP as assistant and then deputy international editor. One of the most indelible episodes of Mr. Komarow’s career came when he served as an impromptu hostage negotiator in December 1982. Then an AP reporter, he was assigned to “swing by” the Washington Monument, where “I learned that a wacko in a dark blue jumpsuit and full-face motorcycle helmet had driven a white-panel truck up the path to the monument doorway,” he recounted in now-defunct George magazine. “The truck was full of dynamite, the man claimed. There was no reason to doubt him.” Norman D. Mayer, a nuclear disarmament activist, had monument visitors trapped inside and demanded to speak face to face with a reporter who was single with no kids. Mr. Komarow, who then fit the bill, volunteered, and visited him five times during the hours-long standoff, “trying to get him to relax and chat” and to turn the monument lights on at twilight. Mayer let the hostages go. Mayer eventually tried to flee in his truck. Police snipers killed him. No explosives were found. “Mayer seems less like a terrorist than a Don Quixote,” Mr. Komarow wrote in the 2007 piece. “Even in bluff, he avoided harm to anyone but himself.” Steven Komarow was born in Queens, N.Y., on May 18, 1956, and completed high school in Westport, Conn. He graduated from George Washington University and, early in his career, he was a news assistant at the Baltimore Sun. Besides his wife of 35 years, of McLean, survivors include two children, Cayla Komarow of Los Angeles and Sasha Komarow of McLean; a brother; and a sister. Read more  Washington Post obituaries  Michael Anderson, ‘Dam Busters’ director, dies at 98 Art Paul, Playboy magazine art director who created bunny logo, dies at 93 Larry Harvey, philosophical force behind Burning Man festival, dies at 70