TAMPA — What has Nicklas Backstrom ever done for this team anyhow? Who needs him? Here are some factual things that have transpired since the Washington Capitals began the Stanley Cup playoffs: They lost their first two games. At home. They lost one forward to injury for the end of their first-round series and the entirety of their second-round series. They lost another forward to suspension in the middle of that second-round series, and could have well lost their edge — and composure — as well. They closed out Pittsburgh anyway, on the road. Oh, right. Keep going. Backstrom, their do-everything centerman, didn’t play in the clincher against the Penguins, either, which means 131 points watched that victory from the press box. And his next shift in the Eastern Conference finals against the Tampa Bay Lightning will be his first. One last fact: The Capitals played twice here over the weekend, and they won twice. What is going on? “In past years, we might feel a different way,” said defenseman John Carlson, who has endured so many of those past years. “Maybe [we] had a different aura in the room. This year is just different.” Sunday night’s 6-2 victory in Game 2 of the NHL’s semifinal round puts the Capitals in an extraordinary position: up two games to none before they have even played a game at Capital One Arena. At this point, though, if the NHL offered the Caps the chance to wear white sweaters and set up shop in a hotel for the rest of these playoffs, they would be wise to take it. They’re 7-1 on the road. This quest isn’t over, not close, and there’s no way the Lightning doesn’t play its best game of the series Tuesday night in Washington — in part because it has been horrid for two straight games in front of increasingly restless fans down here. The Capitals themselves lost those first two games of their opening series against Columbus at home — then ran off four straight to close out the series. The Lightning has the skill and the savvy to do just such a thing. But consider the backbone this Capitals team is showing in views both granular and panoramic. No Backstrom yet in this series? Lars Eller, his replacement as the second-line center, scored for the second straight game, this time to give the Caps the lead for good. Jakub Vrana, benched earlier in the playoffs because the coaches didn’t trust him defensively? He created that goal by digging a puck out of the corner. They are, right now, stepping on throats, and it doesn’t matter who is wearing the steel-toed boots. “One of the things at playoff time is the team concept trumps everything,” Capitals Coach Barry Trotz said. “It doesn’t matter if you’re a loaded team or trying to piece it together during the playoffs. It starts with your leadership. It starts with your core group. It starts with commitment. It starts with belief.” The little stuff Sunday night was significant. Holding a 1-0 lead in the first period, Tom Wilson charged toward the net in an attempt to tip in an incoming pass from Evgeny Kuznetsov. Wilson’s greatest crime these days always starts with the fact that he goes through life being Tom Wilson, a walking misdemeanor in the eyes of the NHL. Wilson, for sure, crashed into Lightning goalie Andrei Vasilevskiy. View the play through rock-the-red colored lenses, and didn’t Tampa’s Chris Kunitz — an old annoyance from his Pittsburgh days — hook Wilson first? Didn’t matter. The penalty went on Wilson. Took the Lightning all of 30 seconds to score the power-play equalizer. Fine, fine. Washington came here to win one game and head north with home-ice advantage. The Capitals weren’t going to lead Tampa Bay for an entire series anyway. Still, there was time to get agitated, or even angry. Not even 90 seconds later, Washington forward T.J. Oshie raised his stick as a puck floated near him. Tampa Bay defenseman Victor Hedman moved in on the play and crumbled to the ice when he was hit in the face — not by Oshie’s stick, but by the puck. This, folks, is not a penalty. Except when it’s whistled as such. Oshie went to the box for high-sticking. And the Lightning took the lead on Steven Stamkos’s power-play goal. Hockey people like to say the drive to a Stanley Cup is the hardest journey in sports, and when you watch it live, it’s hard to disagree. The challenge is extraordinary on a physical level. These guys subject their bodies to an absolute physical beatdown, rest and recover for a day, and then do it again 48 hours later. The Capitals are still six wins from what would be a championship, and they have already played 14 games in the 31 days since they opened this quest. Yet the harder thing to overcome is how to handle those moments when things don’t go your way. The Capitals were steaming on the bench about the Oshie call. They went to the dressing room after the first period obviously — and justifiably — miffed. But there was also a calm, professional approach. Beyond the moment, they did not whine about the calls. They buried them and put them away, and they played hockey. And when this group does that, they get a response. This was in the form or Devante Smith-Pelly’s equalizer less than three minutes into the second, then Eller’s go-ahead goal with just over a minute to go, and then the kind of exchange that could, if you allow yourself, make you think that things really are different this year. With 10 seconds to go in the second, they got a goalie interference call on Vasilevskiy, who may or may not have tripped Andre Burakovsky. And for the second straight game, they scored a ridiculous goal when the period should have been over — this one from Kuznetsov. That’s how they handled Game 2. That’s how they handled Backstrom’s absence. That’s how they handled their trip to Tampa. And that, from a perfect weekend in Florida, is how these Capitals built an advantage in this series — because it’s how these Capitals are built. Read more on the Capitals: Washington crushes Tampa Bay, takes 2-0 series lead back to D.C. Lars Eller steps out of injured Nicklas Backstrom’s shadow and into the spotlight Lightning defenseman tried to copy Alex Ovechkin’s moves. Now he’s trying to stop them.