Game 4 Washington Capitals vs. Pittsburgh Penguins Series: Capitals lead 2-1 7 p.m. ET, PPG Paints Arena TV: NBCSN • Game 4 will be the first of Tom Wilson’s three-game suspension. (Read more) • With Wilson out, Washington’s Devante Smith-Pelly will have a greater role. (Read more) • This series always features compelling hockey — and some other drama, too. (Read more) Top story lines • Suspension: The Capitals got bad news on Wednesday night with the NHL Department of Player Safety’s verdict that Tom Wilson would be suspended three games for an illegal check to the head of Pittsburgh’s Zach Aston-Reese. Washington’s forward corps is already depleted with Andre Burakovsky out with an “upper-body” injury, and Wilson has been a top-line complement to Alex Ovechkin for most of the season. Wilson wasn’t made available to the media, but his teammates expressed disappointment in the decision. “I think any arrogance that we might have had from our last couple of victories has been squashed,” forward T.J. Oshie said. “The fact that we’re losing Tom, that he’s been taken away from us for a couple games here, we’re fired up to play and we want to win the game for him.” • Playoff debut: With Wilson out, rookie Shane Gersich will make his postseason debut, playing beside fourth-line center Jay Beagle. Gersich played in just three games this season, signing with the team late in the year after his junior season at the University of North Dakota. Gersich is arguably the fastest player on the Capitals’ roster, and that speed could be an asset against a quick Pittsburgh team. “Obviously I’m going to use my legs the best that I can, keep my game pretty simple and just help the team get a win,” Gersich said. “He brings a lot of the elements we’re looking for,” Capitals Coach Barry Trotz said. “He’s got great wheels, has a competitive spirit about him, real good hockey IQ, he’s played some games, not any playoff games, but he’s done a real good job when he’s been in the lineup. I think it’ll be a real good fit. He goes on that Beagle line and they’ve played together. It’ll be a good match there. I told him to have fun. There’s nothing like playoff hockey, so get out there and do what you do within our structure.” • Road strength: The Capitals are undefeated on the road  this postseason. A win on Thursday night would give Washington a commanding three-games-to-one series lead and push the Penguins to the brink of elimination. “I think sometimes at home, you tend to complicate the game a little bit, try and do a little too much,” Beagle said. “I think on the road it’s pretty easy just to settle into a road game, knowing that the expectation really isn’t on the away team as much as the home with the crowd and everything. And that you can just go out and play a more simple game. Sometimes it changes the game a little bit into pucks deep and playing a more north-south game. And I think when we do that, that’s when we play our best.” Players to watch Devante Smith-Pelly: Smith-Pelly played beside Ovechkin and center Evgeny Kuznetsov for more than 151 even-strength minutes during the regular season, so it makes sense that he was tabbed to replace Wilson on that top trio. Trotz has been complimentary of Smith-Pelly’s postseason play — he’s scored two goals — and he brings a similar physicality as Wilson to Washington’s top-six forward corps. Smith-Pelly scored seven goals during 75 regular-season games, and he has two goals and one assist through these first nine playoff games. “He’s a big boy,” Ovechkin said. “I’m comfortable playing there,” Smith-Pelly said. “It’s been a while, but I’ve said it every time I’ve changed lines: I don’t really have to change what I do. Those guys are good enough to kind of adapt to the way I play. I’m similar to Willy, so I don’t have to change anything.” Derick Brassard: The Penguins acquired Brassard before the trade deadline to bolster their depth up the middle, but the center who has a reputation for being a playoff performer has gotten off to a slow start this postseason. In nine games, he has one goal and two assists with a minus-one rating. The secondary scoring that propelled Pittsburgh in its past two Stanley Cup runs has been missing; the Penguins’ top line has scored five of the team’s seven goals this series and captain Sidney Crosby has been on the ice for every Pittsburgh goal. “I think there’s always that feeling-out process in how the player’s going to fit in, what role he’s going to play and who he plays with and how we’re going to utilize him throughout the course of a game,” Penguins Coach Mike Sullivan said. ” … We’ve gone through the process where we believe Derrick makes us a better team, we’re deeper down the middle. One of the things we really like about him is his versatility. We can use him in so many ways. And we have done that since we’ve acquired him. We can play him up and down the lineup, he can play power-play time, he kills penalties, he’s a pretty good faceoff guy and he’s a solid two-way center iceman. Because of that and his versatility, we think we can utilize him in so many different ways. We’re trying to put him in a position where he can play to his strengths. We’re trying to surround him with people we think can help him play to his strengths, and that process continues.” Pregame reading Immerse yourself in the Capitals’ postseason with The Post’s coverage of the Stanley Cup playoffs: Capitals-Penguins means compelling hockey — and the focus on everything else Tom Wilson suspended three games by NHL for hit on Zach Aston-Reese Down 2-1 in series with Capitals, Penguins find themselves in a rare hole Tom Wilson’s most controversial hits, from Brayden Schenn to Zach Aston-Reese ‘Hell yeah!’ Max Scherzer and the Nats remain all-in on the Capitals For one fan base at least in Capitals-Penguins series, Tom Wilson is a big hit Penguins goalie Matt Murray on winner: ‘I just have to make the save there’ The subtle secret to Sidney Crosby’s greatness No suspension for Capitals’ Tom Wilson after hit on Penguins’ Brian Dumoulin Speedy Jakub Vrana could be the Capitals’ X-factor — if he gets on the ice With a bit of luck — and a lot of Braden Holtby — the Capitals tie up the series Penguins leave town fuming after Game 2 loss to the Capitals How the Capitals improved their defensive play in time for the postseason ‘When the pressure is on,’ so is Penguins goalie Matt Murray A two-goal lead is hockey’s most dangerous. For the Capitals, it’s a grenade. Capitals and Penguins: A landscape of pain and agony ‘We’re actually quite excited about it’: Caps want their Cup quest to go through Pens For the Capitals to make a leap, Braden Holtby must provide safety in net So they meet again: Five top moments in the Alex Ovechkin-Sidney Crosby rivalry No doubt: Capitals’ Braden Holtby kept his confidence amid a season of struggles These Penguins fans have more sympathy than hatred for the Capitals Fancy Stats: Three reasons this Capitals-Penguins series will be different Washington’s expected lineup: Forwards Alex Ovechkin-Evgeny Kuznetsov-Devante Smith-Pelly Chandler Stephenson-Nicklas Backstrom-T.J. Oshie Jakub Vrana-Lars Eller-Brett Connolly Shane Gersich-Jay Beagle-Alex Chiasson Scratches: Andre Burakovsky (upper body), Tom Wilson (suspension), Travis Boyd, Brian Pinho, Nathan Walker Defensemen Dmitry Orlov-Matt Niskanen Michal Kempny-John Carlson Brooks Orpik-Christian Djoos Scratches: Jakub Jerabek, Madison Bowey Goaltenders Braden Holtby (starter) Philipp Grubauer Scratch: Pheonix Copley Pittsburgh’s expected lineup: Forwards Jake Guentzel-Sidney Crosby-Patric Hornqvist Carl Hagelin-Evgeni Malkin-Phil Kessel Conor Sheary-Derick Brassard-Bryan Rust Dominik Simon-Riley Sheahan-Tom Kuhnhackl Scratches: Carter Rowney, Zach Aston-Reese (concussion, broken jaw) Defensemen Brian Dumoulin-Kris Letang Olli Maatta-Justin Schultz Jamie Oleksiak-Chad Ruhwedel Scratch: Matt Hunwick Goaltenders Matt Murray (starter) Casey DeSmith