Solicitor General Noel Francisco notified the Supreme Court on Tuesday that he misstated what date President Trump made it “crystal clear” that his travel ban had nothing to do with a campaign promise to ban Muslims. Francisco told the court in a letter Tuesday that he meant to say the statement came on Jan. 25, 2017, in an ABC interview that is cited in the government’s briefs — not on “September 25th,” as he said in oral arguments last week. His letter clarified the date but might not satisfy those who question the “crystal-clear” part. [Trump’s comments ‘crystal clear?’ Depends on the beholder.] At issue was whether Trump’s past statements about a ban on Muslim entry forever tainted his actions and showed a discriminatory intent, or whether an apology would essentially clear the slate. In his closing remarks to the justices, Francisco said his adversary in the case, Washington lawyer Neal K. Katyal, representing the state of Hawaii, had acknowledged that the president could remedy his past anti-Muslim comments. (Katyal added that, instead, Trump had “embraced them.”) “Well,” Francisco continued, “the president has made crystal-clear on September 25th that he had no intention of imposing the Muslim ban.” That would have been around the time Trump issued the third version of his travel ban, which the court was considering, but such a statement did not seem to exist. A Justice Department spokeswoman said last week that Francisco meant to say Jan. 25 and that he was referring to an interview with ABC’s David Muir cited in the government’s brief. It was about the first version of the ban. “You’re about to sign a sweeping executive action to suspend immigration to this country,” Muir told the president in the interview. “Right,” Trump answered. “Who are we talking about? Is this the Muslim ban?” Muir asked. “We’re talking about — no it’s not the Muslim ban,” Trump answered. “But it’s countries that have tremendous terror. It’s countries that we’re going to be spelling out in a little while in the same speech. And it’s countries that people are going to come in and cause us tremendous problems.”