SAN DIEGO —  After weeks of having someone warmed up and ready to relieve Jeremy Hellickson at a moment’s notice as he began his third time through the opposing batting order, Washington Nationals Manager Dave Martinez ordered no relievers to start throwing as Hellickson faced the Padres’ leadoff man for a third time Tuesday night. He didn’t want to say anything about it, nor for any of his coaches to say anything about it either. This time, he had to let Hellickson continue. The veteran right-hander hadn’t given him a choice. Because by the time Hellickson faced Padres’ leadoff man, Travis Jankowski, for a third time, he had not allowed a hit. He had not walked a man. He had thrown six perfect innings with a maddening change-up and unforgiving curveball that left the Padres out in front or a little behind, but never right on anything. [Box score: Nationals 4, Padres 0] Catcher Pedro Severino knew how to throw to Jankowski. He figured a fastball inside would get Jankowski to hit a groundball, so he called for the fastball. He was right. Unfortunately, Jankowski hit that groundball up the middle, ending the Nationals’ most threatening no-hit bid yet this season. They won the game anyway, 4-0, for their ninth victory in the last 10 games. The Nationals’ closest no-hit bid yet did not come from three-time Cy Young Award winner Max Scherzer or one of the best pure pitching talents of a generation, Stephen Strasburg. It did not come from one of the best left-handed starters of the last half decade in Gio Gonzalez, or former 16-game winner Tanner Roark. The Nationals’ nearest no-hit bid yet came from a 31-year-old who waited for a call this winter that never came, who pitched to a 6.97 ERA in his last 10 starts last season and found himself unemployed in March, then signed a minor league deal as a nonroster invitee to spring training, with no guarantee he would get more than a brief chance to prove he deserved better. He now trails only Scherzer in the race for the best ERA in Washington’sNational League-best rotation. “I don’t really feel like I have something to prove. But just with the way the offseason went, it’s just kind of a new motivation for me,” Hellickson said. “And then playing with this team, it’s all worth it.” [Trea Turner on the Padres trading him: ‘I think it worked out for the best’] Asked a few days before his near-perfect evening, Hellickson provided a few theories about his revival. He admitted that playing with losing teams grated on him, as much because he spent the last few seasons as a trade deadline chip and never felt totally settled. He also pointed to command, to keeping the ball down in the zone where his relative lack of velocity does not cause as much trouble. “You try to do too much sometimes, and when you’ve got a guy like Hellickson who has a really good change-up, it makes his fastball seem that much harder,” said Howie Kendrick, who played with Hellickson in Philadelphia last year and has faced him for years. “When he’s keeping the ball down, it makes it really tough. When you’re getting those pitches down, as a hitter, you don’t do too well on pitches down like that.” Hellickson kept everything down Tuesday, using that change-up against righties and the curveball against lefties, pairing them with the cut fastball and four-seam fastball and two-seam fastball — and all his variations of each — to leave the Padres utterly baffled through six innings. Their starter, Clayton Richard, held the Nationals down for a few innings, too. Then, in the fifth, Matt Adams doubled home Kendrick. Severino singled home Adams. An inning later, Hellickson doubled home a run. The Nationals added insurance in the ninth, by which time Hellickson’s night had ended. He threw 6 ⅔ innings in which he allowed two hits and struck out eight. [Ask Boswell transcript (May 8): Redskins, Nationals and Washington sports] When Jankowski broke up the perfect game, Martinez called for Ryan Madson to warm up. When Franchy Cordero doubled two batters later, he did not hesitate to pull Hellickson, who had thrown 91 pitches. But until that point, even with his recent propensity for pulling Hellickson after 60 pitches to avoid a third time through the order, let alone 91, Martinez told pitching coach Derek Lilliquist to stay away from the bullpen phone. Part of that was superstition. Part of that was Martinez trying to show his veteran right-hander that he trusts him, and that his leash doesn’t have to be so short forever. “[I told Hellickson] trust me, but we have to make sure we take care of you and don’t read into this whole third time around the order,” Martinez said. “I know you can pitch. I’ve seen you pitch. I’ve seen you pitch into the seventh. You’re going to be fine. Today, he was outstanding.” Thanks to Hellickson, then scoreless innings from Brandon Kintzler and Wander Suero, the Nationals secured their third straight series win. They won their 20th game, tying them with the NL East-leading Braves and second-place Phillies in the win column. And they got to see a veteran most teams left for dead continue his rise through relevance and into relative prominence, proving he belongs, and making his best case to stay.