Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas apologized Friday for offending Jews by saying in a speech earlier this week that the Holocaust stemmed from hatred of Jewish banking practices — not anti-Semitism. His remarks before Palestinian lawmakers in Ramallah on Monday sparked widespread condemnation and reignited accusations that Abbas is a Holocaust denier. He claimed Monday that his beliefs were based on those of Jewish authors and said “that animosity toward Jews was not because of their religion but because of their social activities,” especially “usury and banking and such.” But on Friday he said in a statement that “if people were offended by my statement ... especially people of the Jewish faith, I apologize to them.” “I would like to assure everyone that it was not my intention to do so, and to reiterate my full respect for the Jewish faith, as well as other monotheistic faiths,” he added. For years, Abbas has faced a barrage of criticism over his doctoral dissertation that questioned whether the death toll of 6 million Jews in the Holocaust may have been inflated. He has apologized previously for remarks perceived as anti-Semitic. In response to Abbas's apology on Friday, Israeli Defense Minister Avigdor Liberman tweeted that Abbas “is a wretched Holocaust denier, who wrote a doctorate of Holocaust denial and later also published a book on Holocaust denial.” “That is how he should be treated,” he wrote. “His apologies are not accepted.” Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Wednesday that the comments were anti-Semitic. “Once a Holocaust denier, always a Holocaust denier,” he said of Abbas. American officials and the European Union foreign service were among those who condemned his Monday remarks. David Friedman, the U.S. ambassador to Israel, called them “a new low.” “To all those who think Israel is the reason that we don't have peace, think again,” he wrote on Twitter. Nickolay Mladenov, the United Nations’ special coordinator for the Middle East peace process, said Abbas used his speech “to repeat some of the most contemptuous anti-Semitic slurs.” And former U.S. secretary of state John F. Kerry, who participated in months of peace talks between Israeli and Palestinian officials, said Abbas's comments Monday were “wrong, ugly and unacceptable.”