Compare two Donald Trumps. There’s President Trump, calling into Fox News’s “Fox and Friends” last week, opining at such great length on favorite topics (James Comey’s honesty, the electoral college) that the hosts at several points seem as though they’re ready to cut his line. Then there’s candidate Trump in a very different situation, unhappily answering questions posed to him during a deposition as part of a legal dispute involving the restaurants at his hotel in Washington. We are all quite familiar with the first Donald Trump, the Trump who sees a microphone and the audience is left wondering which will give out first: Trump’s stream of consciousness or the metal and plastic components of the amplification system. We are not used to seeing the latter Trump: clipped responses, offering as little as possible in both words and body language. That difference is no doubt what his attorneys are banking on when they consider allowing Trump to sit down for an interview with special counsel Robert S. Mueller III. The stakes of such a conversation would be much higher than either of the two discussions above, of course, meaning a more circumscribed Trump than even in that deposition. On Wednesday, newly hired Trump team member Rudy Giuliani told The Washington Post’s Robert Costa that he would object to a lengthy interview between Trump and Mueller, ostensibly because of the amount of time that would take from Trump’s schedule (as Giuliani indicated last evening on Fox News’ “Hannity” program) but really because the less time someone spends talking to law enforcement officials, the less likely it is that person will say something false or incriminating. So Giuliani figured that Trump would give Mueller “max, two to three hours.” The question that arises is: How many questions could Trump answer in that time period? We know that Trump’s attorney Jay Sekulow cobbled together a list of 49 questions he thought might satisfy Mueller’s curiosity, but is two hours enough time to run through those? We can start to answer that question by looking at how long it takes Trump to answer questions, using the interviews above. The Trump database Factba.se has, conveniently, an index of both the deposition and the Fox News interview that includes durations for Trump’s responses. Grouping those responses into 5-second chunks, the distribution of Trump’s answers looks like this. His answers tended to be longer when talking to “Fox and Friends” than when talking to the attorneys. On average, his deposition answers lasted about 7 seconds (including zero-second responses that were usually single-word replies). His television interview responses averaged 14 seconds. But that is misleading. When a Fox host jumped in with a bit of encouragement (“Right,” for example), it treats the continuation of Trump’s remarks as a new response. So we also watched both the Fox interview and the first 15 minutes of the deposition to figure out how long each answer took in a broader sense, from the start of Trump’s replies to the conclusion of his thoughts. (We excluded single-word replies for this.) That gives us a picture that looks like this. Notice that Trump’s replies often ended at about the one-minute mark on Fox, perhaps a function of the hosts being goaded to redirect the conversation. On television, the average response by Trump was over a minute. In the conference room, discussing his hotel, it was about 16 seconds. Trump’s responses aren’t the only issue. There are two other important factors: How long the interviewer takes to ask the question and how many follow-ups ensue. So let’s say that the interviewer takes 8 seconds to ask his or her question to Trump. How many questions in total can be squeezed into a two-hour timespan? If he’s answering at Fox News length, 100. If he’s answering at deposition length, 300. That’s a lot! In two hours Trump could ask twice as many questions as Sekulow whipped up. Except that this ignores the question of follow-ups. Those questions, reported by the New York Times, include things like, “What was the purpose of your calls to Mr. Comey on March 30 and April 11, 2017?” If Trump were to spend 16 seconds offering an answer to that question — even a pointed, direct answer to it — there’s almost no way that Mueller’s investigators wouldn’t have follow-up questions to ask. If you assume that there are four follow-ups to every one of Sekulow’s 49 questions, we’re suddenly at 245 questions. The numbers above also assume that there are no pauses, no thinking about the responses, no objections from attorneys. It’s a constant stream of talking. If we assume that there are 5 seconds of silence included in each question-answer pair, we’re down to 248 questions being answered at an average of 16 seconds a piece. Here’s what one 16-second answer from Trump during the deposition looked like, according to Factba.se. “No. We never thought about it. I — I always viewed it as being ’16. To do it properly, ’16 would be — you know, sometime during the year ’16.” Or an 18-second response from his “Fox and Friends” interview. “It was what the Democrats used to try and make an excuse for their loss of an election — for their loss of the electoral college that they should never lose because the electoral college is set up perfectly for the Democrats and this was an absolute total beating in the electoral college.” In the former case, he’s thinking more about his answer and it’s slower. In the latter, he’s riffing. In other words, he’s conveying much less information in his deposition 16-second chunks, meaning that there would need to be more questions as a result. Factba.se’s data has Trump giving 412 responses in his 90-minute deposition interview and 98 on “Fox and Friends” (again including one-word responses and greetings, etc.). In those 412 answers, Trump said 7,600 words. On Fox, he said over 4,600 — a third of the time but 60 percent as many words. The answer to the main question — how many questions could Trump answer — is fairly simple: As many as he wants. He could grant as much time to Mueller as desired and answer each question as fully as possible. His lawyers, justifiably would rather he not. Which is why Giuliani’s focus is on the clock. Give Mueller two hours and Trump will answer enough questions to fill two hours, end of story. Of course, Trump’s answers at the deposition may also have been a function of his prep work for the interview. He was asked what he’d done to prepare for the interview. “I would say virtually nothing,” Trump replied. He then added, “I just arrived here, and we proceeded to the deposition.” Prep for a meeting with Mueller would probably be more substantive.