Yes, price inflation is firming up a bit, but that’s not what’s got me worried. I think a bigger problem is our extremely elevated levels of BNI: “Breaking News Inflation.” This got triggered for me this morning upon receiving the “Breaking News!” from various outlets reporting that — wait for it — President Trump acknowledged paying hush money, through his lawyer, to Stormy Daniels. If you want to insist that Trump’s admission is news, okay, perhaps you’re right. But I’m sorry: If everybody who’s drawing breath already knew something to be the case, it’s not breaking news. It’s confirming what we already knew. Sorry to be that ranting old dude, but half of what I see in this space sounds to me like Breaking news: It’s Thursday! Evidence of BNI is in the figure below, from Google Trends, showing interest over time in the term “breaking news.” As you see, but for the occasional spike, BNI was well anchored until November 2016. I ran the deep statistical analysis, but I can’t figure out what changed then. Ha-ha. I suppose there’s an argument for the arrival of Trump as a legitimate cause of BNI, but let’s not be so quick to accept that. A couple of weeks ago, the breaking news was that Trump suggested he wanted the United States to get back in the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal. The next day, major newspapers ran front-page stories on his portentous change of heart. But again, anyone paying any attention knew Trump’s statement was meaningless. And sure enough, in a few days we received this bold headline: “Trump renews attack on TPP: ‘I don’t like the deal’ ” Granted, we’ve got much bigger problems than BNI, but I don’t think this is a trivial matter. Trump doesn’t just create chaos; he craves it. It’s a key ingredient to his negotiating strategy. Consider what he’s doing with the tariffs on steel and aluminum. He threatens to raise them, freaks out the global trading regime, exempts a bunch of countries, then, hours before the exemption runs out, he re-renews the exemptions. Breaking News! Exciting!! I’d like to see the media dialing all this back — not ignoring the news and the tweets and the chaos, but not playing into Trump’s hands by amping it all up. The problem is they have a financial incentive to gin up the clickbait, creating an unfortunate synergy between the profit motive and Trump’s disruptive strategy, not to mention our psychological addiction to getting excited about stuff. I don’t know brain science, but I’ll bet some dopamine center within the old noggin fires something off whenever “Breaking News” flashes across our screens. I worry that BNI contributes to an atmosphere of phoniness, creating questions and drama where none exist. Of course Trump paid off Stormy. No way was he serious about the TPP. Yet BNI leads to endless, pointless discussions of “news” that isn’t news at all; this, in turn, adds to the uncertainty engendered by Trump’s chaotic mode of operating. Simply put, just like any other inflation, BNI cheapens the value of news. So, what would be breaking news? Good question. How about this?: Trump read a book!