It was supposed to be a potential love connection, two lonely-hearts linked together on an Internet dating site. Instead, the matchup devolved into stalking, threats and a bizarre obsession, according to authorities in Arizona. “I felt like I met my soul mate,” 31-year-old Jacqueline Claire Ades told reporters in a jailhouse interview Thursday in Phoenix. “I thought we would just do what everybody else did and we would get married and everything would be fine. But that’s not what happened.” What did happen, according to police, was a bizarre series of encounters and anti-Semitic messages stretching back to last summer. Ades allegedly piled up her love interest’s inbox with thousands of text messages, sometimes 500 a day and many laced with threats. “Oh, what I would do w ur blood!” she allegedly once wrote. “I’d wanna bathe in it.” In total Ades is accused of sending 65,000 texts. “That’s it?” Ades said on Thursday when a reporter asked her about the number of messages. “To me it seemed like more.” “Isn’t that kind of excessive?” she was asked. “Love is an excessive thing,” Ades replied. In her interview with reporters this week, Ades said she was originally from Miami. “I wound up here on a road trip from Florida, looking I guess for love,” she said. The man— who is unidentified in police documents and local media reports — allegedly met Ades online and went on a date, CBS 5 has reported. In her interview, Ades told reporters they connected on Luxy, a dating site for verified millionaires. “The most shallow one ever,” she said. “Where the rich men meet the pretty girls.” After the initial encounter, Ades began harassing the man with messages beginning last summer, police said. On April 8, the individual contacted police while he was outside the country. Security footage from his home in Paradise Valley, outside of Phoenix, showed Ades taking a bath in his house. When police reported to the home, they found her at the residence. A large butcher knife was on the passenger seat of her car, according to an arrest report. “I never had a butcher knife,” Ades countered on Thursday. “I had, like, little flippy knives on my road trip. People try to hurt me. I’m a single girl. I drove across America. I don’t carry a butcher knife.” After the break-in, she was charged with first-degree criminal trespass and released. On April 30, the man again contacted police, this time showing investigators threatening text messages Ades had sent him between April 16 and April 28. “Don’t ever try to leave me … I’ll kill you … I don’t wanna be a murderer!” Ades texted, according to a police report. “I hope you die . . . rotten filthy Jew . . . lololol Im like the new Hitler… man was a genius,” she allegedly wrote on another occasion. “I’d wear ur fascia n the top of your skull n ur hands n feet,” she allegedly added in another message. All these unnerved the man enough to report to police. He “stated that he is out of the country currently but that he is legitimately concerned for his safety when he returns,” the police report said. The situation allegedly escalated on May 4, when Ades showed up at the individual’s office in Scottsdale. She claimed to be his wife. Four days later, police arrested Ades at her home, according to the police report. She is facing charges of threatening, stalking, harassment and failure to appear. She is being held without bond. She does not have an attorney yet, and her next court appearance will be Tuesday. In her comments to reporters this week, Ades rambled from topic to topic, jumping from Einstein to astrology, Atlantis to the Illuminati. When pressed about her actions, she repeatedly refused to discuss the allegations against her. “I don’t want to talk about that,” she said whenever confronted about her behavior. “I don’t want to talk about those things. You have negative energy.” Ades said she was no threat to her alleged victim. “No! Oh, my God, I love him so much,” she said. “I just want to love him so much, that’s it. And if he doesn’t like it, I’ll go home and I’ll love my ex-boyfriend.” “Do you think you’re a danger?” Ades was asked. “No!” she said. “I think he wanted to make sure I wasn’t or something like that.” More from Morning Mix: 4 men charged with hate crime in ‘brutal’ attack of gay couple at Miami Beach Georgia Chapman says she was never suspicious of estranged husband Harvey Weinstein