With the Wizards’ season concluded, we’re reviewing the Wizards, position-by-position. First, we looked at the shooting guards. In the second installment, the small forwards get magnified. The highest-paid player on the Washington Wizards’ roster averaged 14.7 points per game and ranked as one of the league leaders in three-point efficiency. But he also attempted only 1.8 shots in fourth quarters and heard constant criticism over his lack of aggressiveness. In a narrow sense, the numbers Otto Porter Jr. put up through the 2017-18 represent a fifth straight year of improvement. He averaged career-highs in points and three-point shooting (44.1 percent) and matched his best numbers in rebounding (6.4). But because Porter hauled in a hefty $24 million and plenty of change in the first year of his maximum contract, his production was evaluated under greater scrutiny. The season narrative with Porter, 24, wasn’t that he finished as the only player in the NBA with at least 100 three-point attempts to shoot 50 percent from the floor as well as the arc after the all-star break. Nor was his three-point percentage, which ranked third overall in the league, good enough to drown out the lingering complaint: Porter needs to shoot more. Before the season, Wizards majority owner Ted Leonsis was aware of the optics in giving a max contract to the team’s third-best player, behind John Wall and Bradley Beal. He tried to preempt any critic lying in wait for the first pedestrian performance from post-max Porter. “I don’t think Otto will change,” Leonsis said last July. “I think he’ll improve his game, but we don’t want Otto to have more on his shoulders, nor any of our players, that they’re a max player.” While accurate in theory — honestly, who expected Porter to become a 20-point scorer when Wall and Beal dominate so much of the offense? — the reality is that such a contract demands more responsibility. By the time the season started, Porter’s own coach and teammates — though they never even subtly brought up his bank account — publicly shared that they expected more out of him. During the year, when Porter averaged nearly two fewer shot attempts and points in second halves, the demands increased. “Obviously he’s a big part of our team even when he doesn’t get shots. You have to guard him, you’re not going to crowd the paint,” Coach Scott Brooks said in his season-ending news conference in late April. “Otto, you have to guard him. But we definitely need him to take more shots, especially in the fourth quarter.” Through the Wizards’ first-round matchup with the Toronto Raptors, Porter looked like a shell of himself and required minor surgery that forced him out of the deciding Game 6. “It’s unfortunate that it happened at the time that it happened,” Brooks said. “I thought throughout the year he’s played pretty consistent.” When Porter remained aggressive and his teammates didn’t forget to pass the ball to him, Washington enjoyed an added offensive element — the team went 14-8 in games in which he made three or more three-pointers and 10-6 when he scored at least 20 points. Porter was elevated to the No. 2 option in the 27 consecutive games the Wizards played without Wall as he rehabilitated from left knee surgery, averaging 16.6 points on 12.4 shot attempts, compared to the 13.5 points on 11 attempts in the previous 44 games. The Wizards didn’t finish 43-39 simply because Porter didn’t shoot enough. He is, after all, a capable third piece in the Wizards’ foundation although his numbers may not reach those of a traditional max-contract player. “Before Otto got paid all the money, Otto was getting those same shots. I don’t think just because your money went up, other stuff is supposed to go up,” Wall said. “Otto’s the player that he is. Otto is a slasher, knock down threes for us, great defender, guy that does the little things that you see goes unnoticed … You can’t sit there and tell O.P. to go play one-on-one, that’s not O.P.’s game. So he just stays in his lane and that’s what it is.” [Brewer: It’s worth considering trading Otto Porter] Off the bench: Kelly Oubre Jr. In his third season, Kelly Oubre Jr. played many roles. Fearless bench scorer. Part-time starter and closer. Full-time target for Brooks’s ire after missed defensive assignments. And Jekyll and Hyde from the three-point arc. Oubre, 22, played 81 games and finished with 20 games with at least 15 points, the most off the bench by a Washington player since 2000. Although he started only 11 games, Oubre created the Wizards’ most productive five-man lineup and often replaced center Marcin Gortat when the team went small in the final quarters (Oubre averaged 9.6 minutes in the fourth, the most of any quarter). Still, Oubre could not sustain his shooting over the course of a long season, notching 36.6 percent from the three-point arc in the first half of the season but trailing off to 29.3 percent in the 24 games after February’s all-star break. “He definitely had almost like two seasons,” Brooks said. “He had a good start. Shot the ball well. We were extremely happy with the work that he’s put in over the summer and improvement. He didn’t shoot the ball well in the second half. That’s part of being a good player and the progress of becoming a good player. You have to be able to stay consistent throughout the season. You’re going to have some ups and downs but you’ve got to shrink those as small as you can. He definitely has some growth and upside.” Oubre’s shooting wasn’t the only thing that concerned Brooks this season. He often called out Oubre for his defensive decisions. When defended by Oubre, opponents shot 46.5 percent from the floor, the eighth-highest percentage among Wizards regulars. And although Oubre’s steals slightly ticked up (1.0 steals per game compared to 0.7 from a year ago), his personal fouls also increased. “He plays hard, he plays with passion. A lot of times it works out, sometimes it doesn’t,” Brooks said. “That’s part of growing as a player in this league, you got to find the consistency.” Next season, Oubre will play out the final year of his rookie contract. To prepare for the pivotal season, Oubre plans to spend the summer focusing on improving his fundamentals, finishing plays (he shot 58.7 percent inside the restricted area) and becoming a more consistent shooter. “I’m not putting any pressure on it. I’m not really focused on that. I’m more so focused on getting back and doing exactly what I did last summer with a little bit more,” Oubre said. “I’ll be doing two-a-days each day, except on the weekends. I’m logging out [of] all social media accounts. I’m going to have my girlfriend and assistants handle that. I’m just really going to take it like that. It’s a big summer, like you said. It’s something I’m ready for.” Read more: Bradley Beal, the highlight of an otherwise disappointing Wizards season, still has room to grow The Wizards quietly gave Ernie Grunfeld a contract extension last fall. Now he faces a tricky offseason. Scott Brooks wants the Wizards to rain threes, but to do so, they need more shooters John Wall wants the Wizards to overhaul their roster. They likely won’t be able to. With season over, John Wall calls out teammates, calls on front office for changes