Gina Haspel, President Trump’s nominee to head the CIA, says in a letter to a leading senator that the agency never should have detained terrorist suspects and employed brutal interrogation techniques against them. “With the benefit of hindsight and my experience as a senior agency leader, the enhanced interrogation program is not one the CIA should have undertaken,” Haspel told Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.), the vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, which plans to vote Wednesday on Haspel’s nomination. Haspel played an integral role in the CIA’s program, both as a senior leader in the agency’s Counterterrorism Center and a supervisor of a secret facility in Thailand. While she was there, the CIA subjected one detainee to waterboarding. Haspel had already promised at her confirmation hearing last week that under her leadership the CIA would never again use so-called enhanced interrogation techniques that many, including members of the committee, consider torture. But in saying the CIA never should have embarked on the program in the first place, she is putting distance between herself and other senior intelligence officials, many of whom acknowledge that the CIA made mistakes but defend the interrogation program as legal, presidentially authorized and a legitimate response to the immediate threat of attacks by al-Qaeda. Haspel’s comments may help to persuade skeptical Democrats to support her confirmation, which appears all but assured now that two Democratic senators have publicly said they will vote for her. [Undercover to under scrutiny: Gina Haspel, nominee to head CIA, faces scrutiny over interrogation program] Rachel Cohen, a spokesperson for Warner, said that he “felt that Ms. Haspel was more forthcoming regarding her views in one-on-one meetings and in the classified session, and he asked her to memorialize those comments in writing.” Haspel’s letter was first reported by CNN. Haspel stopped short of criticizing her colleagues who set up the program and oversaw it. “While I won’t condemn those that made these hard calls, and I have noted the valuable intelligence collected, the program ultimately did damage to our officers and our standing in the world,” Haspel wrote. “The United States must be an example to the rest of the world, and I support that.” She also said it “was a mistake not to brief the entire Committee at the beginning” of the program, acknowledging criticism that the CIA didn’t do enough to keep more than a handful of congressional overseers up to speed. At the same time, she appeared to implicate those members who did know about the interrogation program. “Both the Committee and the Agency shared the goal of obtaining the critical intelligence needed to thwart another attack,” Haspel wrote. Notably absent from Haspel’s letter was any statement about her role in destroying 92 videotapes of interrogations carried out at the Thailand facility. Haspel has said that she drafted a cable authorizing the destruction, which was sent by her boss, former operations director Jose Rodriguez, in 2005. But Haspel claims that she believed Rodriguez would first get permission from the CIA director and its top lawyer before dispatching the cable. Rodriguez has said publicly that Haspel knew he intended to take the matter into his own hands and issue the order, because he believed he had the authority to do so.