Washington Capitals center Nicklas Backstrom will travel with the team to Pittsburgh for Game 6 of the teams’ second-round series, and Coach Barry Trotz expects Backstrom to play after sustaining an undisclosed “upper-body” injury on Saturday night. “He got some maintenance today,” Trotz said. “We’ll see where he is tomorrow.” Backstrom’s last shift in Saturday night’s Game 5 was 6:48 into the third period, but he seemed to be ailing for most of the game. On a Penguins power play midway through the first period, Backstrom appeared to block a Justin Schultz shot with his hand. For the rest of the game, left wing Chandler Stephenson took the faceoffs for the second line, an indication Backstrom may have been attempting to play through something. The Capitals are already without two of their regular top-six forwards — Andre Burakovsky is injured and Tom Wilson is suspended for one more game — so losing Backstrom could be devastating even with Washington holding a 3-2 series edge. Backstrom scored 21 goals with 50 assists this season, and he has three goals with 10 assists through 11 playoff games. He centers the Capitals’ second trio with T.J. Oshie and Stephenson, a shutdown line that has had the tall task of containing Penguins captain Sidney Crosby. Backstrom also plays on Washington’s top power play and kills penalties. “You’re always concerned any time that you’ve got anybody that’s nicked up at this time of year,” Trotz said. “There’s concern. But we’ll see where we are tomorrow.” On Saturday night, Trotz said defenseman John Carlson was being evaluated for what he considered to be a “high hit” by Pittsburgh’s Jake Guentzel late in the game. Carlson didn’t comment on the hit, but Trotz seemed to lobby for the league’s department of player safety to take action. “I know the standard has been set, so I’m going to leave it up to the league,” Trotz said, referring to Wilson’s recent suspension. “It was a head shot, in my opinion. An unsuspecting, high hit.” Guentzel won’t face any supplemental discipline, as the NHL saw it as a full-body hit. Trotz said he thinks Carlson will be “fine” for Game 6 in Pittsburgh. Burakovsky hasn’t played since Game 2 of Washington’s first-round series, and though he’s been skating on his own this week, he won’t travel with the team for Game 6 against the Penguins. Read more on the Capitals: ‘The goalie is everything for us’: The Capitals’ Game 5 triumph started and ended with Braden Holtby ‘One more game!’: Caps fans celebrate on National Portrait Gallery steps Washington wins, 6-3, and Caps have two chances to clinch series From last week: Speedy Jakub Vrana could be the Capitals’ X-factor