Ohio voters are setting up one of the year’s marquee gubernatorial races, as candidates with party backing on each side face a challenger who has delivered a more ideological message. Richard Cordray, the former director of the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau, is the favorite in a six-way Democratic primary for governor that turned into a slugfest with former congressman Dennis Kucinich. Republicans are wrapping up a bitter contest of their own, with Attorney General Mike DeWine favored over Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor. Democrats had the lead in early voting; as of Monday evening, more than 260,000 voters had cast early ballots — up from about 227,000 in 2014. Democrats cast more than 132,000 ballots, and Republicans trailed with about 113,000 ballots. At one point, the Democratic race was expected to be a cakewalk for Cordray. Instead, Kucinich tried to make the election a referendum on gun control, universal health care and criminal justice reform, attacking Cordray as a “Republican-lite” candidate who had once been backed by the National Rifle Association and refused to support a ban on firearms considered assault weapons. [GOP on edge as West Virginia considers Senate bid of controversial coal baron] Cordray, meanwhile, had annoyed some Democrats by leaving the CFPB to run for governor, though he pointed out that his term was nearly over and a legal battle was underway over his replacement. National Democrats began to worry about his race after one March poll showed Cordray and Kucinich tied. But in April, Cordray dominated the airwaves, while Kucinich spent nearly two weeks answering for a $20,000 payment he had taken from a group allied with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Even after Kucinich gave back the money, his momentum stalled out. While Cordray’s ads advertised his work with President Barack Obama, Kucinich’s ads featured an endorsement from Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii), who has been criticized for meeting with Assad. “Kucinich bothered me because of the whole Assad thing,” said Robert Halpin, 57, after voting in Cleveland. “I didn’t like Cordray because of the NRA. But in the end, weighing it, I don’t like Assad more [than I don’t like the NRA], so I went with Cordray.” Cordray campaign officials said that they were encouraged by the Democratic early voting advantage and that union members were breaking 2 to 1 for the former CFPB director over Kucinich. They also suggested that some suburban voters who had formerly backed Republican Gov. John Kasich had bailed on the divisive GOP primary to support Cordray. All of the candidates promised to take the state in a different direction than the term-limited Kasich, a two-time Republican candidate for president who has become a critic of Trump’s style as well as his effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Both Taylor and DeWine have talked about undoing the ACA’s Medicaid expansion in the state, a point of pride for Kasich. Both also ran on support of Trump’s immigration policies. Taylor distanced herself from Kasich, saying in ads that she would “stand with President Trump to ban sanctuary cities.” DeWine’s ads promised that he’d “support President Trump’s border wall.” Taylor also attacked DeWine, a two-term senator who was unseated in 2006 by Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), for “voting with Hillary Clinton 962 times.” DeWine locked up most Republican Party support and enjoyed a big lead in polls, but Taylor’s messaging broke through with some voters. David Miller, 54, said he had left the Democratic Party because “every time I turned on the TV, there’s a Democrat calling me a racist.” He voted for Taylor. “I kind of thought that she had a better chance of supporting Donald Trump,” Miller said after voting for Taylor in Cleveland. Democrats were confident in the rest of their statewide races, in which the party’s favored candidates were expected to win nomination easily. Brown, who is up for reelection this year, was waiting for Republicans to pick their challenger. The GOP had gotten a false start on that race, after outgoing state Treasurer Josh Mandel abandoned a rematch against Brown and Rep. James B. Renacci (R-Ohio) announced a late bid to replace him. Renacci is favored to hold off four challengers, including Mike Gibbons, a businessman who has styled his campaign after Trump’s presidential bid. According to FEC filings, Brown would start a race against Renacci with a 3-to-1 cash advantage. As the polls opened, Democrats were paying more attention to three races for Congress in areas carried in 2016 by Trump. Voters in the 12th District, which covers the suburbs north and east of Columbus, were picking the nominees for an Aug. 7 special election to replace Republican Patrick J. Tiberi, who abruptly retired for a private-sector job. Republicans expected their 11-way primary to come down to businesswoman Melanie Leneghan, who is backed by House conservatives, and state Sen. Troy Balderson, who is endorsed by Tiberi. The Democrats’ seven-way primary had boiled down to Danny O’Connor, the elected recorder of Franklin County, and Zach Scott, the county’s former sheriff. Both parties thought that Leneghan would have a slightly tougher time holding the seat than Balderson. While Tiberi cut a moderate image, Leneghan was running as an arch-conservative who warned that “President Obama nearly destroyed the America we love” and said that “with God’s grace, we elected President Trump.” “She’d be a really bad fit for that district,” said Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), who had been talking up O’Connor to fellow Democrats. “I know a lot of people down there. They may not be Democrats. They may be independents or moderate Republicans. That kind of positioning is not what they want.” Rep. Steve Stivers (R-Ohio), chairman of the National Republican Congressional Campaign Committee, said that any leading candidate could hold the 12th District. “If she wins the primary, she’ll win the general,” she said. “You know, she’s actually motivated a lot of people from outside, outside groups, to come in and help her. If she wins, it means she’s hit a grass-roots chord that gets people excited.” Democrats were also watching primaries in the Canton-based 7th District, where Navy veteran Ken Harbaugh is the Democratic favorite, and the Cincinnati-based 1st District, where Hamilton County Clerk Aftab Pureval had outraised incumbent Rep. Steve Chabot (R-Ohio). Republicans had already taken some defensive action in the 7th District, with mail attacking Harbaugh’s underfunded primary challenger as “too liberal for Ohio” — a message intended to split Democratic voters. But that attack encouraged Democrats, who had watched Rep. Bob Gibbs win a 41-point landslide in 2018, to think that the district might be winnable. “I’ve been trying to spread the word up here — we’ve got some young, dynamic candidates in Ohio,” Ryan said. Afi Scruggs in Cleveland and Mike DeBonis in Washington contributed to this report. Read more at PowerPost