The baristas were playing music from Spotify over the speakers on Friday, as they often do, when a Duke University official walked in. Larry Moneta, the vice president for student affairs, waited for his usual order from the campus coffee shop — a hot tea and vegan muffin, according to Indy Week. But the vulgar rap song he heard on the speakers bothered him. “Get paid … get paid. ..,” Young Dolph raps in the song, using the n-word. “Whatever you do, just make sure you get paid.” The baristas did get paid — severance checks. The two baristas on duty, Britni Brown and Kevin Simmons, told Indy Week, an alternative weekly in Durham, N.C., that their contracts were terminated after Moneta complained the director of dining services about the profane song. Moneta said in a statement to the News & Observer and the Duke Chronicle on Tuesday that he was “shocked” to hear lyrics that he said were “quite inappropriate for a working environment that serves children among others.” He said he was particularly troubled by the line in the song that goes “I …. her up real good,” using the f-word. He said it was the coffee chain’s choice, not his, to fire the employees. “The employees who chose to play the song in a business establishment on the Duke campus made a poor decision which was conveyed to” the coffee shop management, Moneta wrote in the statement. “How they responded to the employees’ behavior was solely at their discretion.” That day, Brown was working the register at the Joe Van Gogh coffee shop and was in charge of running the playlist, which was curated by Spotify. Brown told Indy Week that Moneta approached her and told her the song was inappropriate. She immediately turned off the song, apologized for offending him, and offered to give him his muffin free of charge. He refused, insisting that she ring him up for it. Simmons, the other barista on duty, was making drinks when he noticed Moneta’s exchange with Brown. A few minutes after Moneta left, Brown said she received a call from the coffee shop owner, saying the university’s director of dining services had just mentioned the incident involving the song. Brown accepted responsibility and apologized to the owner. But on Monday, Brown and Simmons were called into the coffee shop’s office and asked to resign, they told Indy Week, which cited an audio recording of the meeting. A human resources worker with coffee shop told the baristas they had received a call from the director of dining services, Robert Coffey, who said Moneta had complained about the “vulgar music.” “Duke University has instructed us to terminate the employees that were working that day,” the human resources worker said, offering them severance. In his statement to the Chronicle and News & Observer, Moneta confirmed that he expressed his concerns to the staff, “with whom I’ve always had a cordial relationship.” “I then contacted the director of Duke Dining to express my concerns and that was the end of my involvement,” Moneta wrote. Coffey did not respond to a request for comment from the Chronicle. The baristas said human resources did not cite any other complaints about their workplace conduct. Brown said she felt it was “not fair” for the coffee shop to fire Simmons, who had no control over the music that day. Brown is African American while Simmons is white.  “I feel like you guys were trying to cover it up as to make it not look discriminatory for firing a person of color,” she told human resources officials. Brown also said she did not know of any policies regarding the type of music played in the coffee shop. Indy Week wrote that the firing sheds light on the “precarious relationship between the university and its contracted employees, who are not afforded the same benefits and protections as Duke’s full-time employees, but whose employers are not in a position to defend them out of fear of losing business with the university.” Moneta is responsible for overseeing student services such as housing, dining, health care, career services, student activities, cultural centers, and event and media services, according to Duke’s website. Late last month, he championed freedom of speech in a tweet, recommending a book on the subject to “those who believe that colleges and universities should prohibit hate speech.” “Freedom of expression protects the oppressed far more than the oppressors,” he wrote in the tweet. Faced with criticism that he flipped on this position on free expression, he responded in his statement to the Chronicle and News & Observer: “The artist who wrote, recorded and performed the music is absolutely entitled to do so, however offensive I might find the lyrics.” More from Morning Mix: Mormon Church breaks all ties with Boy Scouts, ending 100-year relationship She saved thousands to open a medical clinic in Nigeria. U.S. Customs took all of it at the airport. Mitch McConnell campaign taunts Blankenship — with a little help from Netflix’s ‘Narcos’