The Washington Redskins on Wednesday informed one of the longest-serving members of their scouting department, Scott Campbell, that his contract will not be renewed. Campbell confirmed in an email that he was told of the decision by Doug Williams, senior vice president of player personnel, and expressed pride in his 17 years with the team. “I grew up in a football family, and changes like this are part of the profession I chose 31 years ago,” Campbell wrote. “I’m proud to have hired and trained most of the scouts in the department and watch them develop and grow through the years. I am most proud of the 2014 and 2017 drafts that I was in charge of running. I leave with positive memories and look forward to the next chapter in my career.” According to Tony Wyllie, senior vice president of communications, two regional scouts, Cole Spencer and Dave Whittington, will be taking on additional responsibilities. [Redskins remade: An early look at the 2018 53-man roster] Campbell was a 17-year veteran of the team’s scouting department and served two stints as director of college scouting, most recently from 2006 to June 2017. Following the team’s firing of General Manager Scot McCloughan in March 2017, Campbell was the primary person responsible for the Redskins’ 2017 draft, overseeing the college scouting department, setting the draft board and fielding reporters’ questions in the run-up to the selections. The Redskins’ 2017 media guide credited Campbell with helping identify third-round tackle Morgan Moses in 2014 and Pro Bowl guard Brandon Scherff and wide receiver Jamison Crowder in 2015. [Mr. Irrelevant could play a significant role for the Redskins] In a reorganization that followed the June 2017 appointment of Williams as the team’s top personnel executive, Kyle Smith was promoted to director of college personnel, while Campbell was named senior personnel executive. Before joining the Redskins in 2001, Campbell served as the Chicago Bears’ director of pro personnel and spent three seasons as a regional scout in Kansas City. More on the Redskins: Jay Gruden says Redskins’ first-round pick Da’Ron Payne is ‘not just a run stopper’ After Redskins trade down, running back Derrius Guice falls right to them A closer look at how first-round pick Da’Ron Payne fits in the Redskins’ defense