A cougar killed one person and seriously injured another in a rare attack Saturday in rural Washington state, authorities said. The victims were mountain biking near North Bend, a foothills town about 30 miles from Seattle, just after 11 a.m. when they realized that a cougar was chasing them. The bikers, at first, managed to drive the big cat away by making loud noises — something that authorities recommend people do during such encounters. One of the bikers also struck the animal’s face, causing it to run toward the bushes, said Sgt. Ryan Abbott, spokesman for the King County Sheriff’s Office. But just as they were about to ride away, the cougar came back and jumped on the head of one of the victims. “The first victim told us that the actual cougar’s mouth was around his head. The cougar was trying to shake the victim from side to side,” Abbott said. At that point, the other biker got off from his bike and ran away, which caught the cougar’s attention. Abbott said the big cat then released the first victim and chased the other. The victim took off on his bike and as soon as he looked back, he saw the cougar dragging his friend into the woods, Abbott said. Abbott said the victim rode about two miles to find cell reception, called 911 and screamed “Help!” into his phone. [People couldn’t believe two dogs killed their owner. So the sheriff described the horror.] First responders from fire and sheriff’s departments treated the victim, who suffered deep cuts throughout his body. About 2½ miles away, they found the other victim’s bike in the middle of a gravel trail. Further into the woods, they found the victim in the cougar’s den, with the animal on top of him. Abbott said one of the deputies shot the cougar and missed, but the gunshot was enough to scare the animal away. Officers with the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife used hounds to track the cougar, which was found behind a tree just 80 feet away, Abbott said. Abbott said the area is known for cougar sightings, but the attack was extremely rare. During a necropsy, medical examiners will examine the animal’s brain to find out if it was sick or if “something else was going on,” Abbott said. “This is not a normal way that a cougar acts,” Abbott said. “Most of the time, they’re very afraid. … Most of the time, they run off quickly.” Before Saturday, just 16 cougar attacks, one of which was fatal, had been reported in Washington state during the past century. The first known fatal attack happened in the 1920s, when a boy named Jimmy Fehlhaber was devoured by a male cougar. Roughly 120 attacks, 25 of which were fatal, have been reported in the United States and Canada in the past 100 years. However, attacks involving cougars, also known as mountain lions, have been increasingly common in the past 20 years as humans encroach on wildlife habitats. In Washington state, for example, seven of all reported attacks occurred during the 1990s. [Two dogs in rural Virginia mauled their owner to death, authorities say. But why?] Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife Police has euthanized the cougar, a 100-pound male about 3 to 4 years old. The surviving victim is at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle, where his condition was upgraded to satisfactory on Saturday, according to media reports. Abbott said authorities have not identified the victims, only saying the one who survived is a 31-year-old man and the other was a 32-year-old man. According to the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife, 1- to 2-year-old cougars that have become independent of their mothers are more likely to attack domestic animals and humans. “When these young animals, particularly males, leave home to search for territory of their own, and encounter territory already occupied by an older male cougar, the older will drive off the younger one, killing it if it resists. Some young cougars are driven across miles of countryside in search of unoccupied territory,” the agency said. If you encounter a cougar, don’t run — because the animal’s instinct is to chase. Instead, authorities advise people to never take their eyes off the animal and to try to appear larger and more intimidating. Shout, wave your arms and throw rocks, anything to let the animal know you are a threat and not prey. “If the cougar attacks, fight back aggressively and try to stay on your feet,” according to the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife. “Cougars have been driven away by people who fought back.” Read more: Yes, that’s a monkey grinding on top of a deer A Bengal tiger was shot dead after it wandered into a Georgia neighborhood and attacked a dog Florida teacher accused of drowning raccoons in class resigns as state agencies investigate