Trenelle and Carey Gabay were trying to have a baby in the months before Carey was shot in 2015, an attack that took his life and forever altered hers. Long seeking a way to cope, and to honor her husband, Trenelle is now fulfilling their shared dream: She is pregnant with Carey’s child. “How do I change this tragedy to be a celebration of life?” she asked. Shootings, such as the one that killed Carey Gabay three years ago, have become so routine in America that it often takes a mass attack — like the one April 22 that left four people dead at a Tennessee Waffle House — to draw much attention. But after the news coverage ends and the funerals are over, those who outlived their children or spouses or siblings — or now go through life with bullet fragments lodged in their bodies after surviving — must endure the physical and mental scars forever. As their ranks grow, many are now telling their stories, hoping their experiences can help prevent others from being killed or injured. Many refer to themselves as the “walking wounded,” and they increasingly have been finding one another, both to take a joint stand against the violence but also to find common ground in their emotional struggle. During the past week, dozens of gun violence survivors gathered in Washington to share their grief and to lobby on Capitol Hill, part of an annual leadership fellowship program with Everytown for Gun Safety, a gun-control group that created the Everytown Survivor Network. The group shares experiences and learns how to communicate with the public, media and elected officials. Those involved say it is part of their healing process and a way to pay tribute to those who have been lost. “The tears in my eyes, these are real,” said Regina Thompson-Jenkins, whose 19-year-old son, Tre’ Devon Lane, died in 2012 shielding two friends from random gunfire in Trenton, N.J. “Tre’ is never coming back, and all I can do is try to make him proud.” This year’s group includes a woman who always wanted to be an aunt but ultimately had to pick out caskets for her nieces, ages 5, 3 and 6 months, who were killed by their father. A woman who crouched beside the bed in her hotel room, which was next door to the suite of a man who rained bullets on a country music festival in Las Vegas. A woman whose father committed suicide. A daughter whose mother was fatally shot when she opened her front door. A woman whose close friend was killed at the Pulse nightclub massacre. The 37 adults came from 21 states and cover all age groups. A number are gun owners who said they fully support Second Amendment rights. They work in entertainment, churches, school systems and human resources. Their experiences include mass shootings, suicides, domestic violence and random violence, some of it still unsolved. They call themselves a family, but they don’t want any more members. [‘The club no one wants to join.’ Mass shooting survivors find solace in one another] “It’s overwhelming,” Lashea Cretain, 40, said of meeting so many others like her. She was shot five times by her ex-boyfriend in Louisiana in 1996 as her 4-month-old daughter and 2-year-old son watched. The children were not physically harmed. Cretain spent weeks in a coma and still has five bullets lodged in her body. “I don’t want anyone else to endure the pain.” Many in the group met for the first time over a dinner of walnut-crusted chicken and fish Sunday night. After eating, they sat at round tables and played an icebreaker game as they nursed beer, wine and soda. Each person picked an index card, read a question on it aloud and gave an answer. One woman asked: “If you could time travel, where would you go?” “I’d go back to the day before my daughter was murdered and stop it,” Madeleine Garcelon said aloud to herself. Her daughter, Nicolette Elias, was shot seven times by her ex-husband in 2014 in front of their two daughters in Portland, Ore. Garcelon carries a locket containing Nicolette’s hair and a photo. Garcelon has testified before the Oregon legislature, written opinion pieces and spoken at rallies. She wanted to come to Washington because it is “part of healing,” she said. “Telling my story isn’t as hard as not telling it.” The attendees were given tips on how to do that. Don’t be afraid to cry. Be direct. Don’t feel the need to smile. While speaking in public, stride confidently on stage. Put your hands at your side. Gesticulate only with purpose and do so with poise — no matter how frustrated you are, don’t give anyone the finger. The group jammed into a small conference room and made two lines, facing one another, where they practiced telling their stories and advocating gun control succinctly in different scenarios, including at the grocery store, to the media and in the halls of power. “I’m a survivor of gun violence,” Robert Gaafar said to his partner. “This is an issue that is an American issue. It’s not a partisan issue.” Gaafar and his colleagues were wrapping up three days of work at the Route 91 Harvest festival in Las Vegas when Stephen Paddock started shooting from the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay hotel on Oct. 1. Gaafar crouched behind a beer vending machine. The lights on top of it were shot out and the top was riddled with bullets. [Invisible wounds of Las Vegas shooting could affect tens of thousands] The months since have been difficult and filled with surreal experiences, such as when the FBI emailed Gaafar to get him to describe a bag that the agency believes belongs to him. He can’t get the screams he heard that night out of his head. And he has difficulty watching news of other shootings, particularly when there is video or sounds of the attack. “It brings back memories,” he said. Gaafar takes solace in knowing that others in the group, including Tia Christensen, who was staying in the room next to Paddock when he carried out his massacre, can relate to what he feels. Others decided to do the fellowship because they felt they had no one they could talk to about what had happened to them. When Brenda Mitchell’s youngest son, Kevin, was deployed to Iraq in 2005, his older brother Kenneth drove him to the airport. Days later, Kenneth, 31, was out with friends at a sports bar near Chicago. As he was leaving, a fight broke out and Kenneth tried to intervene; he was shot and killed. He had three children. Mitchell notes that one of her sons survived a war zone and the other was killed in a free country. “That pain is so intense. Is this what my life is like? I don’t know if I want to live it,” she remembers thinking after Kenneth died. “I wanted someone to tell me I could get to the other side.” She now feels as though she has joined the community she needed 13 years ago. “You look around the room and realize this is a little piece of the pain that’s been inflicted,” she said. “Being in that room helps you to understand that you’re not alone in this process.” The group is told to be kind to themselves. There are guided breathing exercises, morning walks and a painting workshop. At the end of one day, the group stood in a circle and placed their hands on the shoulders of others while “I’ll Stand By You” by the Pretenders played. Members swayed and closed their eyes. One woman wiped away tears. On Wednesday morning, the group gathered for one last meal together before heading to Congress. They heard from Rep. Ted Deutch (D-Fla.), who represents the district where the Parkland high school shooting took place and has endorsed several gun-control measures. Nathalie Arzu’s brother, Jose Webster, was 16 when he was fatally shot in the Bronx while walking his girlfriend home. Arzu’s 10-year-old brother told her of Jose’s death. “I feel good knowing I said something,” she said of talking to lawmakers. “I didn’t let my brother’s death go in vain.” Trenelle Gabay also wants to her ensure her husband’s death isn’t forgotten. The son of Jamaican immigrants, Carey Gabay was raised in a New York housing project and graduated from Harvard University and Harvard Law School. He was working as a lawyer for New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D) when he was caught in random crossfire and was shot in the head during a predawn celebration at the West Indian American Day Carnival in Brooklyn in September 2015. He spent nine days in a coma before he died. His alleged assailants are now on trial. When Gabay googled her husband about six months after he was killed, she saw a photo of him next to a headline that read, “Hopeless Nation.” She was so upset that she ran to the bathroom and vomited. Her husband, she said, was anything but hopeless. She decided in that moment to tell their story. “It’s turning grief into action,” she said. “That, to itself, is part of the healing journey.” She said she and her husband were soul mates, and they married in 2012. A brother-in-law she never met was killed by a gun. Carey helped craft a New York gun-control law. She and Carey desperately wanted a baby. On the fourth day Carey was in a coma the couple was supposed to have an appointment with a fertility specialist. Trenelle asked doctors that day if they could harvest Carey’s sperm. They did. “I would like to leave this world knowing all future generations are safe, even more now that I have a son on the way,” she said. The baby boy is due in July. She has already picked out a name: Carey Gabay.