ATLANTA — As NFL owners gather for what promises to be a busy two-day meeting at an Atlanta hotel beginning Tuesday, there remained no clear consensus among them about what to do about the league’s national anthem policy for the 2018 season. There remains a belief that the ultimate resolution will be a compromise under which the policy will be decided on a team-by-team basis, whereby some owners would require players to stand while most probably would not. But the issue remains up for debate and other resolutions still are possible, according to people familiar with the league’s inner workings. Elsewhere, the owners will consider proposed changes to kickoffs and likely will ratify the use of instant replay to aid in decisions about whether to eject a player from a game under the helmet-hitting rule approved in March. They could also approve the sale of the Carolina Panthers from Jerry Richardson to hedge fund billionaire David Tepper for approximately $2.2 billion, consider the implications of the Supreme Court ruling clearing the way for states to legalize sports gambling, and will decide future sites of Super Bowls and NFL drafts. [Panthers’ new owner David Tepper tearfully recounts father’s abuse during commencement speech] But reaching a resolution on the anthem policy would be the most significant development at this meeting, if the owners indeed can reach one. A high-ranking official with one NFL franchise said in recent days he wasn’t certain what it will be, but he continues to believe that a team-by-team decision is most likely. Houston Texans owner Robert McNair said in March at the annual league meeting that NFL playing fields are not the place for political statements. Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said last season that he would bench any player on his team who refused to stand for the anthem. Cincinnati Bengals owner Mike Brown reportedly told free agent safety Eric Reid that he plans to require his players to stand for the anthem during the upcoming 2018 season. But other owners have said they do not favor requiring players to stand. The owners declined to enact such a requirement when they met last October in New York. NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and some owners said then that they wanted players to stand for the anthem but weren’t prepared to require it. They said they were focused on discussions with players that led to last year’s social justice initiative in which the league and teams are providing funding for players’ community activism. The owners could opt to leave the current policy unchanged. They could return to the league’s pre-2009 approach of keeping players in the locker rooms until after the anthem is played, or require players on the field to stand while giving them the option to remain in the locker room if they choose. [Trump praises NASCAR for its lack of protests during national anthem] It does not appear that there is sufficient support among the owners for a leaguewide directive requiring all players to stand. The current rule, included in the game operations manual sent by the league to teams, requires players to be on the sideline for the anthem. It says that players should stand but it does not require it. The kickoff proposal will be put in front of the owners by the competition committee. It represents what amounts to a last-ditch effort to make the play safer before the league would consider eliminating it entirely. The proposal, constructed with the input of special teams coaches from around the league, is an attempt to make the kickoff more like a punt, with blockers running alongside potential tacklers down the field instead of meeting them head-on at high speeds. The idea is to prevent would-be tacklers from getting a running start before the ball is kicked and would require eight of the 11 players on the receiving team to line up within 15 yards of the restraining line between the teams. This would create an initial no-hitting zone between the teams and eliminate all forms of “wedge” blocking by two or more players standing side by side. The proposal must be ratified by at least 24 of the 32 teams. So, too, must the inclusion of replay in the process by which a player would be ejected under the new safety rule approved by the owners in March. That rule makes it a penalty for a player to lower his head and use his helmet to initiate contact with an opponent. The replay element is the final part of that rule that must be considered by the owners, and would make all ejections subject to replay scrutiny. [The NFL begins a challenging task: Trying to explain its new helmet-hitting rule] Owners likely will approve the sale of the Panthers to Tepper provided those on the NFL’s finance committee are satisfied with the structure of the deal. Tepper is a minority owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers and already has been vetted and approved. He would be required to sell his stake in the Steelers. Finally, the owners will begin making preparations for the widespread legalization of sports betting by states. The NFL previously had expressed opposition this, citing concerns about the integrity of the game. But with the Supreme Court’s ruling, the league and owners have no choice but to accept the new landscape while beginning to devise a means to take advantage of potential new revenue streams. Goodell said in a written statement released Monday that Congress must provide a framework by which widespread sports betting can exist without threatening the integrity of pro sports leagues. “We have spent considerable time planning for the potential of broadly legalized sports gambling and are prepared to address these changes in a thoughtful and comprehensive way, including substantial education and compliance trainings for our clubs, players, employees and partners,” Goodell said. “These efforts include supporting common sense legislation that protects our players, coaches and fans and maintains public confidence in our games.” Read more on the NFL: Lions, Coach Matt Patricia won’t be punished by NFL for 1996 sexual assault arrest Johnny Manziel is returning to football, with the Hamilton Tiger-Cats J.J. Watt to pay for funerals of Santa Fe High shooting victims Eagles get June invitation to White House, but some players ‘feel passionate about not going’