Last week I suggested that the Trump administration’s “maximum pressure” campaign did not play a significant role in getting Kim Jong Un to the bargaining table. Some analysts have agreed with me, while others suggest that the policy played a bigger role than is commonly understood. This is an interesting debate to have, and reasonable people can disagree on the role of the Trump administration’s policy. For today’s Spoiler Alerts, however, I want to ask a more superficial question. Why aren’t there more Trump foreign policies with punchy, doctrine-sounding names like “maximum pressure”? Doctrine names are the jazz hands of foreign policy. In and of themselves, phrases like “rebalancing” or “constructive engagement” or “strategic patience” do not mean much. The advantage of using them is threefold. First, terms like “maximum pressure” are easy shorthand, jargon that eliminates a lot of  verbiage to describe a foreign policy approach to a region. Saying “maximum pressure” is easier than describing the ratcheting up of economic sanctions, bellicose rhetoric and military actions designed to coerce Pyongyang into altering its behavior. Second, branding one’s own foreign policy can preempt critics from doing so in a more negative light. I suspect few in the Obama administration liked the “leading from behind” appellation, but it stuck because Obama’s critics liked it a lot. Third, for a doctrine to get a name means that it has acquired enough heuristic punch to accurately convey what a foreign policy looks like. Debates can be had about the impact of “maximum pressure,” but everyone knows what it means. It is striking that “maximum pressure” is the only Trump administration foreign policy to get this kind of treatment. It is particularly striking given that the president’s one observable skill has been to brand everything he does. Why no Trumpian name for U.S. foreign policy toward, say, Latin America or the Middle East? Let me suggest that the problem is not the lack of new doctrine names; those are easy to create. The problem is deeper than that. For the Trump administration to brand its foreign policy doctrines in other areas, it has to agree on a set of coherent policy ideas. And it is increasingly clear that this administration cannot agree about anything when it comes to foreign affairs. Consider trade, one of the few areas where President Trump possesses core convictions. A raft of articles over the past week makes it clear that the administration lacks a clear doctrine about what to do. There’s this New York Times article by Shasta Darlington: Brazil accused the Trump administration on Wednesday of breaking off negotiations over the tariffs last week and issuing a take-it-or-leave-it offer. According to the Brazilian authorities, the United States said the country’s steel and aluminum industries could opt for tariffs or quotas. That account appears to contradict the White House’s version of the events. On Monday, White House officials said they had reached agreements in principle with Argentina, Australia and Brazil with regard to steel and aluminum, saying the details would “be finalized shortly.” The disconnect between the United States and Brazil echoes the broader state of the trade negotiations, which have been clouded by confusion, miscommunication and a general state of uncertainty over the rules of engagement. Or then there is Ana Swanson and Jim Tankersley’s description of the U.S. trade delegation sent to China last week: Top Trump administration officials are arriving in China this week armed with tough talk about Beijing’s need to change its trade practices. But within the United States delegation there is little consensus about what concessions America should try to extract — or the best approach to getting the Chinese to agree. Instead of a single point person with a clear set of demands, the White House is sending six trade and economic officials with differing ideas on how to approach China and who are deeply divided over the desirability of a trade war. Some advocate goals that do not align with what the American business community wants or what China is prepared to offer, raising questions about how productive a dialogue will be, and whether talks can prevent the world’s two largest economies from tipping into a deeper conflict. Unsurprisingly, these trade talks did not end well. And article after article depicts an administration at war with itself far more than with its trade partners. This is not just about foreign economic policy. This week the State Department had to clarify that Rudy Giuliani, the president’s super-visible personal attorney, does not speak for the administration on foreign policy. That would be obvious in a normal administration, but as the AP’s Josh Lederman notes, this administration ain’t normal: In the Trump administration, the lines between official spokesman and Trump confidant have often been blurred, creating frequent questions about who speaks authoritatively for the president…. Even among those explicitly authorized to represent U.S. foreign policy, such as Cabinet officials, there has often been confusion about whose version of events most accurately represents Trump’s positions at any given moment. In the foreign policy realm, Trump’s secretary of state, U.N. ambassador and White House press secretary have occasionally seemed to be reading from different scripts, even on sensitive issues like whether Syrian President Bashar Assad must leave power. Just because a foreign policy has a label does not mean it will work (see: “shock and awe,” “constructive engagement”). In this administration, however, the failure to brand its doctrines does not suggest a failure of marketing. For a foreign policy to acquire a label, it has to be coherent enough to merit one. Outside of “maximum pressure,” it would appear that Trump’s foreign policy team cannot agree on what they are doing.