In his final days, David Goodall spoke about his 104 years of life and the legacy he hopes to leave behind when he dies. The Australian scientist, who has traveled from his home in Perth to Switzerland to end his life by assisted suicide, answered questions Wednesday about why he wants to die and how he plans to do it. When asked what song he wanted played at his bedside, he said he has not chosen one but if he had to, it would be Beethoven’s 9th Symphony. Then he burst, spontaneously, into song, singing the words in German: Freude, schöner Götterfunken Tochter aus Elysium, Wir betreten feuertrunken, Himmlische, dein Heiligtum! Goodall sat at a news conference Wednesday in Basel, Switzerland, wearing a shirt that read “Ageing Disgracefully” and dozing during reporters’ questions. He said he planned to die Thursday, probably around midday, putting an end to a life that, he said, has become increasingly difficult to live. When asked whether he has any hesitation about his plans to die, he responded: “No, none whatsoever.” [This Australian scientist just turned 104. Now he’s flying to Switzerland to die.] Goodall, a botanist and ecologist who is thought to be Australia’s oldest scientist, said on his birthday last month he has simply lived too long. “I greatly regret having reached that age. I would much prefer to be 20 or 30 years younger,” he told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. during the festivities in April. When asked whether he had a nice birthday, he told the news organization: “No, I’m not happy. I want to die. ... It’s not sad, particularly. What is sad is if one is prevented.” “My feeling is that an old person like myself should have full citizenship rights, including the right of assisted suicide,” the 104-year-old man added. Assisted suicide has been banned in Australia, so Goodall boarded a plane last week and traveled more than 8,000 miles to Basel, a city in Switzerland near the French and German borders. Switzerland, like many other countries, has not passed legislation legalizing assisted suicide; but under some circumstances, its laws do not forbid it. “I don’t want to go to Switzerland, though it’s a nice country,” Goodall told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. last week. “But I have to do that in order to get the opportunity of suicide which the Australian system does not permit.” “I would prefer to be able to do it in this country,” he told 9 News Australia about leaving Australia. “This country is my home. I’m sorry to have to go a long way away in order to end my life.” In most countries, euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide are illegal. However, a handful of nations — including Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands — have legalized one or both of the practices, according to the nonprofit group ProCon.org. For years, Australia has banned such practices, but in November, the state of Victoria became the first to pass a euthanasia bill, which, by summer 2019, will allow terminally ill patients to end their lives. Under Swiss law, a person with “commendable motives” may not cause another person’s death, and a person with “selfish motives” may not assist in the death; but the law does not forbid a person with “commendable motives” from assisting  someone in taking their own life. The law states: Any person who for commendable motives, and in particular out of compassion for the victim, causes the death of a person at that person’s own genuine and insistent request is liable to a custodial sentence not exceeding three years or to a monetary penalty. Any person who for selfish motives incites or assists another to commit or attempt to commit suicide is, if that other person thereafter commits or attempts to commit suicide, liable to a custodial sentence not exceeding five years or to a monetary penalty. In the United States, only six states — California, Colorado, Hawaii, Oregon, Vermont and Washington state — and Washington, D.C., have death-with-dignity laws for terminally ill patients. For the past two decades, Goodall has been a member of Exit International, a nonprofit organization based in Australia that advocates for the legalization of euthanasia, according to the group’s website. Goodall said he does not have a terminal illness and until recent years, he appeared to be in good health. He played tennis until he was 90, he performed in amateur stage plays until his eyesight began to decline, and he kept up his work as an honorary research assistant at Edith Cowan University in Perth, even after the school in 2016 deemed him unfit to continue making the trek to campus, according to the Australian Broadcasting Corp. The ABC reported at the time that after nearly two decades on the campus, Goodall was told to leave amid concerns about his well-being. The incident gained international media attention, with Goodall, then 102, calling it ageism in the workplace. “It’s depressed me; it shows the effect of age. The question would not have arisen if I were not an old man,” he told the news organization. University officials later reversed their decision. Goodall said he has had a good life, but in recent years, his health has declined. He told the ABC that several months ago, he fell down in his apartment in Perth and, for two days, he lay on the floor until his housekeeper found him. “I called out, but no one could hear me,” he said. Goodall said he thinks it is time for him to die, but his country’s new legislation is of no use to him because it applies only to those who are terminally ill. Before leaving for Switzerland, he told 9 News Australia family members, including his daughter and three grandsons, were accompanying him on the trip. “It’s very good that they shall be here to see me off. I have a lot of family elsewhere, some in Europe, whom I shall see in Bordeaux. In Switzerland, I will also see one or two other members of my family, and so that will also be a goodbye.” In his last news conference Wednesday, Goodall said there are certainly things he will miss, such as his “journeys into the Australian countryside.” “There are many things I would like to do, I suppose, but it’s too late,” he told reporters. “I am content to leave them undone.” He said he hopes his story will encourage lawmakers to consider legislation that will allow others like him to make their own decisions about death. In the end, Goodall said he would like to be remembered “as an instrument of freeing the elderly” to choose their own death. Read more: Elderly couple got ‘deepest wish’ — to die together — in rare euthanasia case A terminally ill woman had one rule at her end-of-life party: No crying