Hundreds of Southern Baptist women have signed an open letter to the trustees of Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary that says they are “grieved by the dangerous and unwise counsel” that its president, Paige Patterson, has given by telling abused women not to divorce, and are shocked by his comments that “objectify a teenage girl.” “These comments are damaging, sinful, and necessitate a decisive response,” the women wrote in a letter published Sunday afternoon. These women, who include several influential writers and speakers, are not pushing theological boundaries within the Southern Baptist Convention. The letter says they affirm Southern Baptist views that only men are allowed to be pastors and that women are to submit themselves to their husbands. Patterson, whose comments from 2000 went viral last weekend, doubled down on his remarks after the seminary’s commencement ceremony Friday, telling the Washington Post that he has nothing to apologize for. He could not be reached immediately Sunday night for comment about the letter. The women highlighted comments he made in a sermon in which he described a 16-year-old girl walking by, saying “she was nice.” One young man commented, “Man, is she built.” A woman scolded him, and Patterson said he responded to the woman, “Ma’am, leave him alone. He’s just being biblical.” The audience laughed. In their letter, the women especially highlight the “inappropriate nature of his own observations of her body.” Patterson is revered within the Southern Baptist Convention for helping orchestrate a conservative takeover of the denomination decades ago, and he is scheduled to deliver a sermon at the convention’s annual meeting next month in Dallas. Some leaders are in panic mode about what that honor could communicate about how Southern Baptist women are treated. [Southern Baptist leader who advised abused women not to divorce doubles down, says he has nothing to apologize for] After the Washington Post published clips of Patterson’s sermons that included comments about women, Southwestern’s media website that hosted them stopped working. One of the videos included a 2010 address in which Patterson called out female seminary students for not doing enough to make themselves pretty, saying, “It shouldn’t be any wonder why some of you don’t get a second look.” The women behind the open letter tried to bring their concerns before the trustees but felt like they had to make their concerns public to be taken seriously, according to one woman who works for a high-ranking leader in a Southern Baptist entity who spoke on the condition of anonymity because she feared it could jeopardize her job. The seminary’s full trustee board is expected later this month to determine Patterson’s future. Women who signed their names included Lauren Chandler, an author, singer and wife of megachurch pastor Matt Chandler; Karen Swallow Prior, a Liberty University professor; Amanda Jones, the wife of a Southern Baptist pastor and daughter of Bible teacher Beth Moore; and Rachael Denhollander, the former gymnast who led abuse survivors to speak out against sports physician and convicted sex offender Larry Nassar. Denhollander does not attend a SBC church but her husband is a student at Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville. The women state that because Patterson has not apologized for his “inappropriate words,” he is at odds with “the Bible’s elevated view of womanhood. “The Southern Baptist Convention cannot allow the biblical view of leadership to be misused in such a way that a leader with an unbiblical view of authority, womanhood, and sexuality be allowed to continue in leadership,” the letter states. [Southern Baptist leader’s advice to abused women sends leaders scrambling to respond] Another letter, which calls for support for Patterson, was published Saturday and has about 100 signatures. The letter was written by Samuel Schmidt, who received his master of divinity degree from Southwestern on Friday. “Should we be surprised Paige Patterson is yet again the target of another string of unnecessarily evil attacks? Why wouldn’t our common enemy want to destroy Paige Patterson?” he wrote. “Satan hates Paige. Satan despises him, and would not be content with anything less than the total destruction of Patterson.” Some women at Southwestern have also defended Patterson on social media. After commencement Friday, one female graduate said she did not know about the controversy surrounding Patterson. Another woman declined to comment. The most surprising of Patterson’s 2000 remarks is a story he shared about woman who came to him about abuse, and he told her to pray for God to intervene. The woman, he said, came to him later with two black eyes. “She said: ‘I hope you’re happy.’ And I said ‘Yes … I’m very happy,’ ” because her husband had heard her prayers and come to church for the first time the next day. The current president of the SBC, Steve Gaines, has not addressed those remarks or returned repeated requests for comment. Two Southwestern graduates who spoke on the condition of anonymity said Gaines appeared on Southwestern’s campus Friday to show support for Patterson. Once again, my sweet & wise wife, @donnadgaines, has nailed it with this post!! Southern Baptists are biting and fussing when we should be praying and weeping. Start talking directly to people, not about them. Turn down the rhetoric and turn up the prayers! https://t.co/gsrrZlsN80 A tweet Gaines published Saturday appeared to respond to how Patterson’s comments have taken off on social media. “Southern Baptists are biting and fussing when we should be praying and weeping,” he wrote. “Start talking directly to people, not about them.” Patterson also received support from former SBC president Johnny Hunt. Dwight McKissic, a black Southern Baptist pastor who has been in the middle of high-profile conversations surrounding race in the SBC, wrote a piece suggesting Patterson should not be disqualified from his role or sermon at the convention based on his comments alone. Meanwhile, Nathan Montgomery, a PhD student in the philosophy program at the seminary, who was fired after he was tweeted a post from blogger Ed Stetzer suggesting Patterson retire, has sent an appeal to the trustees. Montgomery asked that the record of his dismissal be changed to “voluntarily resigned,” a positive job reference from his supervisor, written acknowledgement from the administration that explicitly clarifies there was no cause and the board repudiates the list of the reasons he was fired. Montgomery also asked that Patterson publicly retract and apologize for his statement in a Washington Post article where he said Montgomery was problematic and had “a long history,” but declined to provide specifics. Montgomery asked that Patterson demonstrate evidence for his comments based on his human resources file.