The Pulitzer Prizes are sticking with author Junot Díaz. “Junot, as you know, has issued a public statement, and we are letting his statement speak for him. He remains a board member,” says Dana Canedy, administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes. Díaz joined the Pulitzer Prize Board in 2010, after winning the 2008 Pulitzer Prize in fiction for “The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.” In recent days, Díaz has drawn some unwanted attention to the prizes. At the Sydney Writers’ Festival last week, Díaz was participating in a discussion when writer Zinzi Clemmons rose to ask him about his treatment of her as a graduate student at Columbia University. She later tweeted her recollections: As a grad student, I invited Junot Diaz to speak to a workshop on issues of representation in literature. I was an unknown wide-eyed 26 yo, and he used it as an opportunity to corner and forcibly kiss me. I'm far from the only one he's done this 2, I refuse to be silent anymore. I told several people this story at the time, I have emails he sent me afterward (*barf*). This happened and I have receipts. Others chimed in with their own stories about Díaz, who had written a compelling New Yorker essay describing his own history under the headline: “The Silence: The Legacy of Childhood Trauma.” “I was raped when I was eight years old. By a grownup that I truly trusted. After he raped me, he told me I had to return the next day or I would be ‘in trouble,'” wrote Díaz. That very piece was cited by Clemmons at the Sydney festival as prompting her question about his own behavior. In response, Díaz issued a statement via his literary agent: I take responsibility for my past. That is the reason I made the decision to tell the truth of my rape and its damaging aftermath. This conversation is important and must continue. I am listening to and learning from women’s stories in this essential and overdue cultural movement. We must continue to teach all men about consent and boundaries. Canedy told the Erik Wemple Blog that “we have spoken” with Diaz following the revelations of last week. However, there’ll be no details about what was said. “I think at this point that’s all we’re prepared to say,” says Canedy. “We’re in touch with Junot and he has issued a statement that we will let speak for itself,” she says. In other news, just last month the Pulitzer Prizes bestowed its loftiest journalism distinction to the New York Times and the New Yorker for stories that “exposed powerful and wealthy sexual predators.”