Dozens of undocumented immigrants were found inside the trailer of an 18-wheeler truck Tuesday night in South Texas, less than 50 miles from the border with Mexico, authorities said. The 86 people, including four unaccompanied children, ranged in age from 3-years-old to 59. Two suspected smugglers were arrested, authorities said Wednesday. The immigrants were “packed like sardines” inside the refrigerated trailer, said Frank Torres, emergency medical services manager for Willacy County. It was also carrying several loads of avocados. Officers with the Texas Department of Public Safety pulled over the truck on Highway 77 near the town of Raymondville, according to media reports. Police had tailed the truck from the border town of Donna, a few miles north of the Rio Grande, after getting reports it might be carrying immigrants, Torres said. Torres said Willacy County’s emergency services division received a call about 9 p.m. Tuesday about a child who was in distress. The immigrants were from Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador, Mexico and Nicaragua, U.S. Customs and Border protection said in a statement Wednesday. [9 people dead after at least 39 were found packed in a sweltering tractor-trailer in San Antonio] The Texas Department of Public Safety did not immediately respond to requests for comment Wednesday. It also is unclear which company owns the truck. All have been taken into the custody of immigration officials, Torres said. At a news conference Wednesday, Carla Provost, CPB’s acting chief, said, “This is our worst time of year when it comes to rescues and unfortunately deaths along the southwest border, due to the temperatures.” Although the trailer was refrigerated, two adults were suffering from heat exhaustion and dehydration and were taken to hospitals, Torres said. It is unclear how long the people had been traveling. [Company whose trailer was used in human smuggling case has history of legal problems] No other injuries were reported. The case was turned over to Homeland Security Investigations. Last summer, a human smuggling operation led to the deaths of 10 undocumented immigrants in San Antonio. At least 39 people — some already dead and many on the verge of death — were found packed inside a sweltering trailer without air conditioning. Some were as young as 15. The truck driver, James Matthew Bradley, pleaded guilty to one count of “conspiracy to transport aliens resulting in death” and one count of “transporting aliens resulting in death.” He was sentenced last month to life in prison. Read more: After deadly smuggling case, officials charge truck driver and decry ‘crime against humanity’ He was brought to Virginia as a toddler, deported at 19. He died in an overheated tractor-trailer trying to return. Discovery of more than 70 bodies in truck highlights European migrant crisis