This year’s edition of the National League East seems unlikely to part at the Washington Nationals’ feet as it has for two seasons now. The Braves, Mets, and Phillies do not look ready to wilt any time soon. The Nationals will need as many wins as possible and cannot afford to forgive themselves much at all. Yet after falling as far as five games under .500 in late April, the Nationals have stabilized enough to accept a consolation prize now and then. They lost Wednesday’s series finale to the San Diego Padres, 3-1, looking futile offensively against veteran right-hander Tyson Ross. Juan Soto and Bryce Harper combined to strike out five times. None of that qualifies as ideal. But the Nationals (26-22) did get their first look at a healthy Erick Fedde. The man they saw make three big league starts last year never quite felt right. The man they saw handle a Padres lineup — admittedly, not the National League’s finest — looked ready for the majors. For a team that has relied so heavily on starting pitching as its offense and bullpen fight for stability, his emergence qualifies as an important silver lining. “My stuff felt really good. This is by far the most comfortable I’ve felt,” said Fedde, the Nationals’ first-round pick in the 2014 draft. “Definitely the start I was looking for, just not the finish.” [Michael A. Taylor emerges from slump, helps Nats walk off winner] Fedde started Wednesday because of a quirk in the schedule. Because the Nationals had to play two games Saturday, Tanner Roark and Max Scherzer were on turn for the same day in the rotation, and either would have had to pitch on short rest to be ready Wednesday. The Nationals are off Thursday, meaning they will be able to reset the rotation for this weekend’s series in Miami. They needed a spot start, nothing more. At one point this season, when A.J. Cole was struggling and Jeremy Hellickson had not yet proven himself, Fedde seemed likely to get his chance at the fifth starter’s role sooner than later. But Hellickson established himself as a bona fide fifth starter, and has a 2.13 ERA in seven starts. Unless the blister that cut his start short Tuesday becomes a more significant issue, he is not going anywhere, so Fedde has no clear path to a big league spot. He is currently the top starting pitching prospect in the Nationals’ system. For perspective, he is six years older than Soto. Fedde bounced between the rotation and the bullpen for Class AAA Syracuse last year. When they look back on the move now, Nationals officials admit the shuffling messed with Fedde. He allowed 16 runs in 15⅓ major league innings, his velocity down, his secondary stuff not landing for strikes enough. Eventually, his velocity dipped so low the Nationals placed him on the disabled list with a forearm flexor strain. [Nats will be more cautious with Ryan Madson when he returns] But this season, he is healthy. His velocity has jumped back to its normal mid-90s levels, according to those who saw him regularly in Syracuse, where he was pitching to a 4.35 ERA but striking out more than a batter per inning. His trademark sinking fastball hit 95 repeatedly in the first inning Wednesday afternoon. He mixed a curveball and a change-up early, something he simply did not do in the majors last year. “My change-up has been ten times better than anything I could have hoped for,” Fedde said. “Today, my offspeed was what saved me. My fastball command wasn’t great, but I’m really happy with the offspeed.” As the innings went on, Fedde also started getting swings and misses on his slider, and his fastball ticked up a mile per hour or two at times. At one point, he struck out five of six Padres. He went 12 batters without allowing a hit. [Box score: Padres 3, Nationals 1] “I thought Fedde threw great,” Harper said. “We have a pretty packed starting staff, but to have somebody like that who can come do that any time he can, that’s huge.” But he ran into trouble in the sixth after allowing a single to Eric Hosmer and walking Franchy Cordero, creating a two-on, two-out jam. Fedde had not walked a man until then. Carlos Villanueva hit a flyball to deep right, into the tough afternoon sun, but where Harper had plenty of time to get to it. He pulled up before the wall, and the ball hit off his glove for a two-run double. “I think definitely a tough play, but maybe a little bit quicker to it, I could have got to it,’ Harper said. Manager Dave Martinez pulled Fedde after that. He allowed three runs on five hits in 5⅔ innings, pushing the Nationals’ streak to 23 consecutive starts of three runs or fewer — which ties the longest in baseball since 2016. “He wasn’t afraid of anybody tonight,” Martinez said. “He pounded the strike zone. . . . He did well. He really did. He kept us in the ballgame.” Matt Adams tried to pull the Nationals back into the game in the seventh, hitting his 11th home run — this one a high flyball into the Nationals’ bullpen. But Adams was the only National to have much success against Ross. The Nationals got five hits against Ross in 6⅔ innings. Adams had three of them. Five hits and one run won’t often be enough to win, though Fedde did all he could to keep the Nationals close. He was not pitching for a rotation spot Wednesday, but he looked like a man ready to take one. All he can do now is wait.