Game 5 Washington Capitals vs. Pittsburgh Penguins Series: Tied 2-2 Saturday, 7 p.m. ET, Capital One Arena TV: NBC • Alex Ovechkin will look to rebound from Game 4, when he didn’t get a single shot on net. (Read more) • Penguins goaltender Matt Murray has been shaky at times this postseason, but that wasn’t the case in Game 4. (Read more) • The spotlight in Game 5 will be on if Washington can gets its top line reignited. (Read more) Top story lines • Alex Ovechkin: For just the third playoff game of his career, Ovechkin didn’t record a shot on goal in Thursday’s Game 4. Washington’s top line seemed to miss Tom Wilson, and Capitals Coach Barry Trotz will have Devante Smith-Pelly in the right wing spot there again for Game 5, opting to give that trio more time to jell. Ovechkin has eight of the team’s 35 goals, with Washington dependent on his production to advance. Similarly, all 10 of the Penguins’ goals in this series have come with captain Sidney Crosby on the ice. “Obviously it was not the best game for our line, but we move forward,” Ovechkin said. “He’ll get his opportunities,” Trotz said. “There’s not too many times that he doesn’t get shots on net. I think a couple times he tried the extra move. The most dangerous thing with Alex is his shot, so put your shot in play and then go from there.” • No line changes: In a tight-checking Game 4, Washington struggled to generate much offense, as the team’s one goal came on the power play. The Penguins did a better job limiting the Capitals’ odd-man rushes. Trotz decided to stick with the same lineup to start Game 5, though he acknowledged that a Plan B and Plan C are ready if Washington struggles offensively again. “Gotta get to the hard areas more, gotta get the puck there, going to have to fight for those inches, fight harder to get into the interior spaces where you can get some of those pucks,” Trotz said before Saturday’s game. “We have to do a better job than last game. I thought they had more desperation in some areas. We’ll be ready to go tonight.” Said Oshie: “In the [offensive] zone, it comes down to shooting around blocks and getting tips. I think you saw in the Columbus series, they were doing a good job blocking shots, so we started shooting for sticks and it worked out for us. That’s kind of how we have to adjust right now because their forwards and their [defense] are doing a good job of taking away shot lanes and blocking shots.” • Good start: The Capitals have scored the first goal in eight of their 10 playoff games so far, and that’s especially important against Pittsburgh. The Penguins are tough to wrestle the lead away from because they thrive on capitalizing on mistakes with odd-man rushes when another team is making an offensive push with more players joining the attack. In every game they’ve lead after the first period this postseason, they’ve won. They’re 4-1-0 when leading after the second period. Players to watch Shane Gersich: Trotz was encouraged from what he saw from the rookie in his playoff debut, especially Gersich’s early scoring chance that went off goaltender Matt Murray’s pads. With Wilson still suspended, Gersich will be on the fourth line again Saturday night, potentially a factor with his strong speed. Gersich played less than six minutes in Game 4. “I would’ve loved to see him score on his first opportunity,” Trotz said. “He had a real good look. He did well. Shane, when you’re sitting there watching and you haven’t played a lot of National Hockey League games and you haven’t played in a playoff game and you’ve been around the intensity of the playoffs, and then all of a sudden the coach calls your name and you’re the guy going on the ice, I thought he was pretty poised. He did a real good job. You can see he’s got a real good skill set.” Matt Murray: The Capitals seemed to be targeting Murray’s glove side through the first three games, and though the goaltender has looked shaky at times this postseason with a 2.33 goals-against average and a .909 save percentage, he was steady in Game 4, allowing just one goal. A year ago, Murray was injured and Marc-Andre Fleury was the difference in the second-round series against the Capitals. Fleury is now the starter in Vegas and Murray doesn’t need to look over his shoulder, but that also means all the pressure is on the 23-year-old to backstop the Penguins to a third-straight Stanley Cup. Pregame reading Immerse yourself in the Capitals’ postseason with The Post’s coverage of the Stanley Cup playoffs: For Capitals, Game 5 focus will be on reigniting top line Andre Burakovsky skates, but unlikely to return by end of Penguins series Penguins dismiss fatigue factor after 59 playoff games in three seasons Capitals-Penguins series tied, but frustrations mount for Washington after missed chance Buckle up: This Capitals-Penguins playoff series is a long way from over Crosby again has a hand in everything as Penguins knot series with Capitals Capitals-Penguins means compelling hockey — and the focus on everything else Tom Wilson suspended three games by NHL for hit on Zach Aston-Reese Down 2-1 in series with Capitals, Penguins find themselves in a rare hole Tom Wilson’s most controversial hits, from Brayden Schenn to Zach Aston-Reese ‘Hell yeah!’ Max Scherzer and the Nats remain all-in on the Capitals For one fan base at least in Capitals-Penguins series, Tom Wilson is a big hit Penguins goalie Matt Murray on winner: ‘I just have to make the save there’ The subtle secret to Sidney Crosby’s greatness No suspension for Capitals’ Tom Wilson after hit on Penguins’ Brian Dumoulin Speedy Jakub Vrana could be the Capitals’ X-factor — if he gets on the ice With a bit of luck — and a lot of Braden Holtby — the Capitals tie up the series Penguins leave town fuming after Game 2 loss to the Capitals How the Capitals improved their defensive play in time for the postseason Washington’s lineup: Forwards Alex Ovechkin-Evgeny Kuznetsov-Devante Smith-Pelly Chandler Stephenson-Nicklas Backstrom-T.J. Oshie Jakub Vrana-Lars Eller-Brett Connolly Shane Gersich-Jay Beagle-Alex Chiasson Scratches: Andre Burakovsky (upper body), Tom Wilson (suspension), Travis Boyd, Brian Pinho, Nathan Walker Defensemen Dmitry Orlov-Matt Niskanen Michal Kempny-John Carlson Brooks Orpik-Christian Djoos Scratches: Jakub Jerabek, Madison Bowey Goaltenders Braden Holtby (starter) Philipp Grubauer Scratch: Pheonix Copley Pittsburgh’s lineup: Forwards Jake Guentzel-Sidney Crosby-Dominik Simon Carl Hagelin-Evgeni Malkin-Patric Hornqvist Conor Sheary-Riley Sheahan-Phil Kessel Tom Kuhnhackl-Derick Brassard-Bryan Rust Scratches: Carter Rowney, Zach Aston-Reese (concussion, broken jaw) Defensemen Brian Dumoulin-Kris Letang Olli Maatta-Justin Schultz Jamie Oleksiak-Chad Ruhwedel Scratch: Matt Hunwick Goaltenders Matt Murray (starter) Casey DeSmith