While the eye-pleasing greenhorn Justify became the early 3-1 favorite for the 144th Kentucky Derby, nobody had cause to wail after they doled out the post positions at Churchill Downs in Louisville on Tuesday. Nobody needed to hit the Kentucky Bourbon Trail for reasons other than leisure. Justify, the Bob Baffert trainee hoofing to prevent 136 years of Kentucky Derby history from turning into 137, will take his 3-0-0 record to the No. 7 post, which has sprinkled an ample six winners across the years, most recently Street Sense in 2007. Justify exemplified a post list benign enough that Mike Battaglia, the Derby’s everlasting oddsmaker, told the audience, “I made the line prior [to the posts], and I kept it. If Justify would have drawn the rail, I would have had to change it.” [Kentucky Derby field, odds and start time: Everything you need to know] The dreaded rail, with eight winners overall but none since Ferdinand in 1986 and only one since Chateaugay in 1963, went to Firenze Fire, a 50-1 shot who counts among the few not fancied among this stockpiled 20-horse charge. In the Nos. 2 and 3 spots were 30-1 shots trained by Louisville native Dale Romans, Free Drop Billy and Promises Fulfilled. Justify, meanwhile, will try that ancient riddle about winning the Kentucky Derby after not racing at age 2, something no horse has done since Apollo in 1882. Starting from No. 7, he is part of a three-wide pod of hopefuls. Good Magic, Chad Brown’s Blue Grass Stakes winner whom Battaglia listed at 12-1, will go from No. 6; Audible, Todd Pletcher’s Florida Derby winner at a robust 8-1, will go from No. 5. Another pod of interest will meet out in the suburbs of the gate, where the horses who drew Nos. 16, 18 and 19 all know each other personally from working for Pletcher. His four projected starters include the 6-1 third-favorite and unbeaten Arkansas Derby winner Magnum Moon (post No. 16), who will try the same I-took-my-2-year-old-year-off thing as Justify, then the 12-1 Wood Memorial winner Vino Rosso (post No. 18) and the 30-1 Louisiana Derby winner Noble Indy (post No. 19). The outside No. 20, whose only winner had to be mighty and proved so (Big Brown in 2008), will hold Combatant, a 50-1 shot that never finished worse than fourth in seven previous races, including fourth in the Arkansas Derby. Of the seven horses seen as 12-1 or better, all drew agreeable posts with the arguable exception of Vino Rosso, and even that No. 18 post carried some recent magic in the form of 2015 Triple Crown winner American Pharoah. Of the five horses with single-digit odds, all did fine Tuesday. [The Kentucky Derby means mint juleps. Here are four variations.] The second-favorite would figure to bounce around the board some leading up to the race, for that is Mendelssohn, listed at 5-1 and starting from No. 14. Mendelssohn, whose Irish star Aidan O’Brien trains for the global colossus Coolmore, joins a gathering line of those who have tested the Derby after taking the long-haul flights that can leave one haggard. Of course, when Mendelssohn won the UAE Derby at Dubai’s spaceship of a racetrack, Meydan, on March 31, he won by so much (18½ lengths) that the others appeared to be in Qatar. Yet the previous UAE Derby winners to try the Kentucky Derby have fared no better than fifth, and the candidate last year, Thunder Snow, broke out of the gate, decided it wasn’t his thing and stopped. In the game’s eternal mystery, he recently won — and smoked — the gaudy Dubai World Cup. No entry whose previous race was overseas has won since 1971, when Canonero II had just finished third in Venezuela, which clearly should have held the Derby that year. No horse lucky enough to reside in Europe has won any Kentucky Derby. At least Mendelssohn will bring along a stash of boasts, which include his cost as a yearling ($3 million at Keeneland in Lexington in 2016) and his obvious versatility (wins on turf at the Breeders’ Cup last fall in California, on synthetic at the Patton Stakes in Dundalk, Ireland, in early March, and then the debut on dirt in Dubai). Bolt d’Oro, who finished second to Justify in the Santa Anita Derby, got an 8-1 compliment from Battaglia and the No. 11 post, after four wins but no first-place finishes in any of his last three, which included an elevation to a win in the San Felipe Stakes of March 10 at Santa Anita, after a disqualification. He has jockey Victor Espinoza, the winner aboard War Emblem in 2002, California Chrome in 2014 and American Pharoah in 2015. The two of them gave chase to Justify in the Santa Anita Derby and finished just three lengths behind, something of an accomplishment given Justify’s early romps. Those romps began on Feb. 18 and continued on both March 11 and April 7, all at Santa Anita for a gilded, limited résumé. They happened in the same winter and spring in which Magnum Moon raced on Jan. 13, Feb. 15, March 17 and April 14, two of the four at Oaklawn Park in Arkansas, making for two unbeaten colts, at least one to become once-beaten on Saturday. In the kind of curious morsel that makes the Kentucky Derby the Kentucky Derby, Battaglia lent 20-1 odds to Hofburg in the No. 9 post, better than some horses with more circumstantial evidence in the dossier. That’s because Hofburg, who raced only on Sept. 2 at Saratoga and on March 3 and 31 at Gulfstream Park, the latter a second in the Florida Derby, has Hall of Fame trainer Bill Mott, known for his judiciousness about entering the Derby. Where Pletcher will have had 52 starters if his four reach the starting gate, Mott has had only seven, if never better than eighth place.