Monmouth Park has waited more than six years to open its betting windows to sports gamblers, and it doesn’t intend to wait any longer. With Monday’s Supreme Court opinion, the New Jersey track is racing ahead with plans to take its first sports bets within the next two weeks. “There’s a possibility we could be ready sooner,” said Dennis Drazin, the CEO of Darby Development LLC, which operates Monmouth Park. Monday’s opinion repealed the 25-year-old federal law that outlawed sports betting in most places outside of Nevada. The news was celebrated at the 147-year old track, which has been counting on legalized sports gambling to help revive its business. Monmouth Park likely will be the first big New Jersey venue to take sports bets and the first business significantly impacted by Monday’s opinion. [States are free to authorize sports betting, Supreme Court rules] Track officials have spent years preparing for this day, planning in earnest since New Jersey voters passed a referendum in 2011 to allow sports wagering. Monmouth Park created a sports bar in 2013 that quickly will transform into the track’s temporary sports book. Track officials are prepared to have even more betting machines and betting windows in an adjacent grandstand area to cater to more than 5,000 gamblers at a time. While they missed out on early events on the sports calendar, such as the Final Four and the Masters golf tournament, they still could be up and running for almost all of the baseball season and the conclusion of the NHL and NBA playoffs. “The anticipation of sports betting has been building for years,” Drazin said in an interview prior to Monday’s opinion. “There’s no place I can go that I can hide. Everyone wants to know when are you going to start taking bets. I anticipate the flow coming to Monmouth Park to be overwhelming just as soon as we go live.” While nearly 20 states have debated bills related to sports gambling, most were in anticipation of the Supreme Court entirely striking down the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act, the 25-year-old law that largely outlaws sports wagering outside of Nevada. For gambling proponents, the debate always centered on states’ rights, an opinion echoed in Monday’s ruling. “Congress can regulate sports gambling directly, but if it elects not to do so, each State is free to act on its own,” the opinion stated. “Our job is to interpret the law Congress has enacted and decide whether it is consistent with the Constitution. PASPA is not.” In anticipation of such an opinion, New Jersey made sure to have infrastructure in place and legislation that cleared the way for gambling operators to move quickly. While other states weigh their options, several venues in New Jersey will be racing to add sports wagering. Monmouth Park, located in Oceanport, N.Y., about an hour south of Newark, already has the infrastructure in place and has just been waiting for a green light. Twice before, in fact, they were on the precipice of taking bets before the courts stopped them. [The Supreme Court sports betting decision: Questions and answers] The track partnered with William Hill, the British betting conglomerate, to help run its sports gambling operation, with the two parties agreeing to split the revenues. William Hill also will build a new Las Vegas-style sports book on the property that will cost at least $5 million, but that’s at least 1½ years away. “We’re ready to go. We’ve always been optimistic that eventually we’ll be able to offer sports betting,” Drazin said. “Certainly, since the Supreme Court arguments [in December], we’ve felt very, very confident.” William Hill already takes bets in more than 100 locations in Nevada. Joe Asher, the company’s CEO, said “we’re going to be ready to open for business at Monmouth Park as soon as responsibly possible.” “If we do this the right way, the only losers will be the illegal bookies that have been operating a massive black market,” he said. For the time being, the converted sports book will handle the bulk of the sports wagers. Bettors have been using the machines there for horse racing, free play and fantasy sports for the past few years. The operation will be entirely a brick-and-mortar business initially. As the track and lawmakers sort through logistics, they hope to add mobile and online wagering as soon as possible. While other states — and even other venues in New Jersey — might have to navigate a very narrow path to offer sports gambling, weaving through plenty of yellow tape in the process, Monmouth Park has established its own regulatory body. Even if New Jersey lawmakers feel they need to get strengthen work on a revised framework of guidelines to govern sports wagering in the state, Monmouth Park will be opening its windows as soon as possible. The bet track officials there made years ago appears to be ready to pay off. While the ruling was certainly celebrated by sports gamblers across the nation, who for years turned to overseas operations or illegal bookmakers to place bets, the subject has been a divisive one in the United States for years. A poll conducted last year by The Washington Post and University of Massachusetts Lowell found that for the first time, a majority of Americans approved of wagering on pro sports. The 55-percent majority was a flip from almost a quarter century ago. “The legalization of sports gambling is a controversial subject,” the court said in its opinion. “Supporters argue that legalization will produce revenue for the States and critically weaken illegal sports betting operations, which are often run by organized crime. Opponents contend that legalizing sports gambling will hook the young on gambling, encourage people of modest means to squander their savings and earnings, and corrupt professional and college sports.” The ruling will have a wide-reaching effects on the teams, leagues and companies many sports fans love. DraftKings, the popular daily fantasy site, for example, immediately announced that it intends to immediately enter the sports betting space, as many expected. “Our mission has always been to bring fans closer to the sports they love and now, thanks to the wisdom of the Supreme Court, DraftKings will be able to harness our proven technology to provide our customers with innovative online sports betting products,” Jason Robins, the CEO and co-founder of DraftKings, said in a statement. “This ruling gives us the ability to further diversify our product offerings and build on our unique capacity to drive fan engagement.”