When Bryce Harper referred to his team as the Syracuse SkyChiefs earlier this week, a semi-accurate reference to the Washington Nationals’ Class AAA affiliate, his major league teammates didn’t seem to get offended. They understood what the franchise cornerstone was trying to convey, that injuries to important players have depleted a roster tasked to stay afloat until reinforcements arrive. They laughed it off. At least publicly. Then a few had some fun with it. Over the next couple days, relievers heckled Harper with “SkyChiefs” chants from the Nationals’ bullpen when he was out in right field. And on Friday, official gray Chiefs T-shirts — the team dropped the “Sky” from its name in 2006 — were waiting for every player and coach in the clubhouse thanks to the relievers. Nearly all of them wore the shirts during stretch and batting practice; closer Sean Doolittle joked his was too big but minor leaguers can’t be picky. For a couple hours, the Nationals dressed like the Chiefs. A short while later, for the sixth straight day, they looked like anything but a minor league ballclub in a 7-3 thrashing of the Philadelphia Phillies at Nationals Park. [Anthony Rendon sharp in rehab, could join Nats on Saturday] Facing a team striving to challenge Washington for NL East supremacy, the Nationals ditched the T-shirts, put on some crisp navy alternate jerseys and slugged their way to a victory in their first meeting of the season against the division rivals. It was Washington’s sixth straight victory, a streak that began two days before Harper offered his unfiltered thoughts, became Washington’s leadoff hitter, and began carrying the shorthanded club with another offensive onslaught. Friday’s barrage began with Harper smacking his second leadoff home run in three days. Then, in the second inning, after Phillies right-hander Nick Pivetta inexplicably walked Wilmer Difo, who reached base three times Friday and has been swinging a hot bat recently, Harper added a 473-foot, two-run blast to center field off the former Nationals farmhand traded for Jonathan Papelbon three summers ago. The homer was Harper’s 11th and fourth since Manager Dave Martinez moved him the top of the order in hopes he would see more pitches after accumulating 38 walks in the season’s first 29 games. Since the adjustment, Harper is 6 for 14 with one walk and the four home runs. Pitchers are pitching to Harper and he is feasting. [Nats reliever Shawn Kelley could start rehab assignment Sunday] “They’re not going to walk him, and if they do it’s not intentionally,” Martinez said. “We tell him every day, ‘Be ready to hit from the first pitch, be ready to hit.’ And he’s doing that and he’s taking some really good swings.” Pivetta lasted one more batter after Harper’s second-inning blast, exiting after one-plus inning, trailing 5-0. Matt Adams then welcomed Drew Hutchison with a first-pitch, two-run home run for his fourth homer in four days. Two innings later, Adams, a first baseman moonlighting in left field, scaled the wall to rob Maikel Franco of a two-run home and the Nationals (17-16) took a 7-0 lead into a 39-minute rain delay a few minutes later. “They were giving me some crap about how not-so-high I can jump,” Adams said of his teammates. “I made the catch that’s all that really matters. I’m just going to run with that.” Gio Gonzalez took the mound again for the fifth after the delay with his pitch count at 67. It was, perhaps, a risky choice, but it worked. Gonzalez danced around a two-out double in the frame and didn’t emerge from the dugout again, ending his night with five strikeouts and two walks over five scoreless innings. His ERA dropped to 2.33 through seven starts, and is on course to repeat his resurgent 2017 campaign. “The biggest thing with him, and we talked about it all spring, is throwing strikes,” Martinez said. “When he’s around the strike zone, he gets bad swings. He really does.” Trevor Gott was inserted in the sixth inning, and his outing wasn’t very clean. The right-hander surrendered back-to-back home runs — first a two-run shot to Carlos Santana followed by a Franco solo homer — before exiting the game with a sprained ankle. Wander Suero then delivered 1⅔ scoreless innings, but Gott’s performance still came at a price; instead of having the luxury of avoiding using one of his three back-end relievers, Martinez inserted Ryan Madson, who has labored recently, with a four-run lead in the eighth inning. Madson allowed a leadoff single to Odubel Herrera, but recovered, striking out the next batter before inducing an inning-ending double play. Brandon Kintzler, one of the relievers behind the Syracuse T-shirts, fittingly closed it out in the ninth inning. The Nationals should look more like the Nationals Saturday, when Anthony Rendon is expected to come off the disabled list after missing three weeks with a hairline fracture in his left big toe. Daniel Murphy, Adam Eaton, and Brian Goodwin, the Nationals hope, will soon follow in some order. Eventually, they could completely resemble the team they envisioned before the season started. For now, the SkyChiefs, over .500 for the first time since April 10, are getting the job done. Read more MLB coverage: Once the Mets’ ace, Matt Harvey will be designated for assignment MLB batters are recording more strikeouts than hits. That’s a big problem that’s unlikely to change soon. Ichiro isn’t retiring. He’ll still wear a Mariners uniform, but he won’t play. It’s weird, man.