PHOENIX — Nationals General Manager Mike Rizzo pulled out his phone to read the diagnosis exactly. He didn’t want to get it wrong. Like so many following the frustrating saga of Adam Eaton’s injuries, the GM thought the outfielder would be playing by Thursday night. It took three doctors and an exploratory surgery to find out why he won’t be playing any time soon. After two MRIs and a bone scan showed no explanation for the lingering pain that turned an awkward slide into a weeks-long absence, Eaton underwent arthroscopic surgery on his left ankle Thursday in Green Bay, Wis. Robert Anderson, an orthopedic surgeon for the Green Bay Packers, discovered a chondral flap in his ankle that was irritating the ankle canal whenever Eaton moved. “Each and every time he got out of the immobilized boot, there was consistent pain. So what Dr. Anderson and Dr. West and Dr. Schon decided was, they were going to do an arthroscopic surgery,” Rizzo said. ” … The good thing is, there was something that needed to be done for him to rehab at 100 percent.” [Adam Eaton travels to Wisconsin to seek second opinion on injured ankle] Anderson removed that flap — effectively eliminating a cartilage tear, in layman’s terms — and the Nationals’ understanding is that all of Eaton’s once inexplicable symptoms now make sense. They have established no timetable for a return, and know only that Eaton will have to keep weight off the ankle for a week before moving into a short walking boot. Then he will begin rehabbing again. The team does, however, expect him back this season. Rizzo said the diagnosis and procedure amount to a relief for all parties. Eaton had seen Nationals team doctor and former Steelers doctor. Robin West. He saw foot and ankle specialist Lee Schon in Baltimore. Then Wednesday, he saw Anderson, who saw the same things on scans of his ankle as the other two — nothing. When he went in to examine the ankle, Anderson discovered the flap, which was flat and therefore didn’t show on scans. When the ankle was immobilized, it gave Eaton no trouble. When he tried to run, he felt sharp pain. Rizzo said the procedure should rectify the problem. “On the images, the cartilage was always flat. But when he was in the process of doing things, running and moving, the flap would get stuck into the lateral gutter of the ankle,” said Rizzo, who made sure he could relay the exact nature of the injury for maximum transparency. “It would cause inflammation and pain. That’s why we could never get him over the hump when we got him out of the boot, because this flap kept interfering and causing inflammation and pain.” Rizzo also said the diagnosis came with the understanding that the injury did not occur when Eaton tore his anterior cruciate ligament and sprained that ankle last April, but instead when he slid hard and banged his ankle around home plate this year. Rizzo’s understanding is that the injury was more the result of impact than the kind of trouble Eaton experienced last season. “I don’t think it’s related, but there was a lot of damage done last year. He had a clean bill of health coming in with the ankle and with the knee. You saw him perform well before the play at home plate,” Rizzo said. “Who’s to say there wasn’t something that happened with the original injury. He was clean to go, performing well. Then the doctors think the play at home plate is what caused the tear.” If not always totally comfortable on his feet, Eaton did not seem hindered by anything early this season. He was batting .345 with a 1.033 OPS at the time of the injury. WASHINGTON NATIONALS (20-18) Bryce Harper RF Trea Turner SS Anthony Rendon 3B Matt Adams 1B Howie Kendrick 2B Matt Wieters C Michael A. Taylor CF Tanner Roark P Andrew Stevenson LF ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (24-12) David Peralta LF Daniel Descalso 3B Paul Goldschmidt 1B A.J. Pollock CF Steven Souza Jr. RF Ketel Marte 2B Nick Ahmed SS Jeff Mathis C Zack Greinke P Read more on the Nationals: Red-hot Nationals prospect Juan Soto promoted to Class AA Harrisburg Nationals-Diamondbacks series preview: Can Bryce Harper get cooking again? With less hair but more playing time, Wilmer Difo has given the Nationals a jolt