Ramps for ducklings are back at the reflecting pool at the U.S. Capitol, wildlife experts said. The ramps are used by the ducklings to get into the water. In the past, the ducklings fell over on ramps with no sides. That has been fixed, according to officials with City Wildlife, and the ramps have more traction to help the ducklings with their footing. About 35 families of ducks make their home at the reflecting pool each spring and summer, according to City Wildlife. City Wildlife officials said it worked with the Architect of the Capitol to improve the ramps after passersby expressed concern about ducklings trying to get into the water. The ramps started last spring after passersby noticed that the ducklings couldn’t get out of the reflecting pool because they were too small to get over its curved edges. The Architect of the Capitol had ramps made for the ducklings. [Ducks now have their own ramp on the U.S. Capitol] Experts at City Wildlife said the ramps, while man-made, are helpful to get the ducklings in and out of the water. Ducklings can’t stay in the water all the time and need a way to get out so they can dry themselves. If they can’t get out of the water, experts said, they can die of starvation, hypothermia or drown. The ducks are drawn to the reflecting pool because it is a large, calm body of water and has few predators in it, according to Anne Lewis, president of City Wildlife. Male and female ducks meet at prearranged spots after a mother duck’s eggs have hatched; for many pairs, the reflecting pool has become a popular meetup spot. Lewis said it is often clear when a pair has planned to meet at the reflecting pool because the drake is waiting there in case others are trying to harass her. In the wild, Lewis said, ducklings have an easier time getting in and out of water. A mother duck takes her ducklings out of the water each night and onto dry land, then roots them under her wings. If she can’t do that, Lewis said, “it stresses them.” Lewis said the ramps facilitate that behavior by helping them get in and out of the water and onto land. Lewis said the ducklings at the reflective pool have become their own sort of tourist attraction. “Ducks are a calming presence in our hectic lives,” she said., adding that there are often “people taking as many pictures of the ducks as they do of the Capitol.”