Last week, a Washington Nationals clubhouse attendant approached Wilmer Difo with a batting helmet and, later, a baseball cap to try on. Difo needed a fresh batch of smaller headwear. Not because his head shrank, but because he had cut his dreadlocks. He initially converted his hairstyle into a mohawk. A couple days later, that was shaved off, too. Asked why he made the change, Difo said, in Spanish, that he’s crazy and does things on a whim. Maybe he was looking for a fresh start. If he was, it worked. In nine starts since the makeover entering Tuesday, Difo was slashing .429/.543/.714. He had two home runs — his only two this season — and two doubles. On Sunday, he slapped the Nationals’ first walk-off hit of the season to center field. The Nationals are 8-1 in those nine games. “I haven’t changed anything at all,” Difo said. “I still do my early work, my cage work, but I think I’ve been more selective with my pitch selection, and that’s helped me.” Of course, batting ninth ahead of leadoff hitter Bryce Harper may have more to do with it than any cosmetic changes. Batting with Harper looming in the on-deck circle leads pitchers throwing more strikes, at least theoretically, because pitchers, again theoretically, don’t want to put a runner on base before Harper steps in. That’s ideal for the 26-year-old Difo, an aggressive hitter who compiled 74 strikeouts and 24 walks last season. But something’s changed there, too. Difo has been walked six times since getting placed in the nine-hole — two more times than he’s struck out — in front of Harper. It’s a minuscule sample size, but those sample sizes count, too. He’s shown more discipline and, as a result, become a more dangerous hitter, lengthening a Nationals lineup still without Daniel Murphy and Adam Eaton. The patience makes facing Harper more difficult by simply being on base and forcing pitchers to throw out of the stretch with a possible distraction on the bases. “He’s starting to stay in the strike zone,” Manager Dave Martinez said. “That’s the biggest thing with Difo. Hit strikes. Swing at strikes. He can hit. He’s a good player. And I tell him, ‘When you’re hitting in a front of a guy like Harp, they don’t want to walk you and they’re trying to throw strikes so be ready to hit and hit strikes.’ And he’s been doing that.” And he’s done with an exuberance few can match. Whether he’s flexing after home runs or yelling in the dugout, Difo provides energy team filled with veteran, even-keeled personalities. “I love having him around,” Martinez said. “He gets guys pumped up every day. [Saturday], he hits the home run and the whole dugout is jumping up and down. I tell you, every time he hits one it’s like setting a milestone. Maybe for him. But he’s that guy. When he gets on base, typically good things happen so I love watching him play. I really do. And he brings that energy every single day.” This is not Difo’s first successful stretch as a major leaguer. He was a significant component in helping the Nationals overcome multiple injuries last season, batting .271 with five home runs, four triples and 10 steals in 124 games. With the performance, he solidified himself as a part of the Nationals’ future and entered 2018 as their super utilityman. He’s already played four positions this season — shortstop, second base, third base and center field. Last year, he also spent time in right and left field. That versatility has been expanded in recent years. He had never played the outfield before last season — and still will only in emergency situations — or third base before 2016. The versatility allowed Martinez to plug him in at third base during Anthony Rendon’s three-week absence almost every day. And it’s allowed him to keep Difo in the lineup at other positions since Rendon came off the disabled list on Saturday. Asked Sunday if Difo has made it difficult to take him out of the lineup, Martinez was coy. “He’s playing right now, so there’s no decision,” Martinez said. “He’s in there.” Difo has earned that playing time. Eventually, if all goes as planned, he won’t be an everyday player, though. He’ll return to his utility role, providing versatility and spark off the bench with less hair and more expectations. “I keep working hard as I always do,” Difo said. “I don’t have any control over the lineup when I’m asked to play — whether it’s twice a week or three times a week — I have no control over that. Obviously, we want the team to be healthy and have the full lineup out there and have myself contribute anyway I can. That’s all I can do is help out anyway I can, and keep my same work ethic.” Read more: Trea Turner on the Padres trading him: ‘I think it worked out for the best’ The growing legend of Juan Soto Capitals’ win puts a dagger in the D.C. sports ‘curse’ Is Ryan Zimmerman’s injury worse than it seems?