BALTIMORE — It was somewhere around the seventh batter of the game Tuesday night at Oriole Park at Camden Yards that the sheer, historic depth of the Baltimore Orioles’ hopelessness revealed itself. As Dylan Bundy skulked off the mound having failed to retire a batter while giving up four home runs to the Kansas City Royals — something that is so hard to do, no one in baseball history had ever managed to do it — these Orioles proved the baseball axiom: no matter how low you think you are, there is always another level to which to sink. The Orioles may have believed they were already at rock-bottom when they flew home Sunday night at the end of an 0-6 West Coast trip. Roughly five weeks into their season, and with nearly five months left to play, they were 18 games under .500 and a staggering 17 games out of first place. And then came Tuesday night — a mostly empty stadium (the official attendance generously announced as 10,863), a ghastly implosion from Bundy, a 10-run deficit in the first inning, and ultimately, a 15-7 loss to a bad Royals team. Sure enough, the Orioles had managed to sink to a new, previously unfathomable level. [Pitching history made by Mariners’ James Paxton (good) and O’s Dylan Bundy (awful)] A stretch such as this — an 8-27 record and a minus-80 run-differential, both the worst in the majors — requires some context: The Orioles of May 2018, it can now be said, are certain to be recalled alongside the Orioles of September 2002, who finished their season on a 4-32 skid; the Orioles of August 2007, whose 11-28 finish began with a 30-3 loss to Texas; and even the Orioles of April 1988, who famously opened their season with 21 straight losses. Thirty-five games in, those 1988 Orioles were 5-30. This year’s edition is a mere three games better, and closing the gap quickly. After Tuesday’s loss, they still haven’t won a game in May, and they haven’t won a road game since April 8. What’s amazing about the Orioles’ futility this season is that this is a franchise that expected to contend in 2018. In this era of downsizing, rebuilding and outright tanking — an example of which sat in the visitors’ dugout Tuesday night — the Orioles came into the season thinking they could compete for a playoff spot, spending $76 million of Peter Angelos’s money on starting pitching in an effort to shore up what was thought to be their weakest area. But the starting pitching remains among the worst in baseball, with an ERA of 5.67 through Tuesday, while almost every other segment of the roster is equally awful. The Orioles somehow manage to allow the most runs per game in the majors (5.8) while scoring the second fewest (3.5). Their abysmal defense has contributed to an American League-worst 20 unearned runs. Veteran first baseman Chris Davis is almost certainly the worst player in baseball relative to his salary, hitting .172 with a .262 on-base percentage and .267 slugging percentage with 43 strikeouts in 116 at-bats while pulling in $23 million this season in the third year of an ill-fated seven-year, $161 million deal. Were it not for free-agent-to-be shortstop Manny Machado (nine homers, .346/.432/.617), the Orioles might never score a run. As it stands, they managed to lose a game Saturday in Oakland when starter Kevin Gausman threw nine scoreless innings. “We’ve been doing a lot of different things … and trying a lot of different things, and we’ll continue to do that until we can get back to some things that we know we’re capable of,” Manager Buck Showalter said after Tuesday night’s loss. “We’re not just sitting around going, ‘Well, it’s just one of those things you go through.’” [Mets trade Matt Harvey to Reds for catcher Devin Mesoraco] But it is fair to wonder whether the urgency of the Orioles’ response matches the severity of the problem. What stood out about their clubhouse on Tuesday afternoon, at the start of a nine-game homestand, was how normal everything seemed. Music played. Players milled around but rarely stayed at their lockers long enough to be cornered by the media. “I think we’re all pressing a little bit,” outfielder Trey Mancini said. “I know, personally, I’m doing that, and I think a lot of people are doing that. Everybody wants to break us out of this. But it doesn’t do you any good to grip the bat tighter and try to hit it harder.” Where do the Orioles go from here? It has long been assumed they will trade Machado this summer, along with one or more of their other pending free agents — relievers Brad Brach and Zach Britton and center fielder Adam Jones — and the early-season collapse may hasten those discussions. But the Orioles would also be wise to consider a more drastic and complete rebuild, one that sees them spin off even younger “core” players such as second baseman Jonathan Schoop and starting pitchers Gausman and Bundy for elite prospects. Despite some recent strides, the team’s farm system remains rated among the lower third in the game. But the Orioles’ future is also clouded by a convoluted and shifting management structure, which begins at the top. Angelos, who turns 89 in July, is known to have taken a much lesser role in the operation of the franchise this year, a leadership void that has been filled in part by his sons, Lou and John, as well as longtime Angelos confidant Brady Anderson, the team’s vice president of baseball operations. [Dylan Bundy’s decline hits historic low with first-inning shelling by Royals in Orioles’ 15-7 loss] Both Showalter and General Manager Dan Duquette — a management team that guided the Orioles to three playoff appearances between 2012 and 2016 — are in the final year of their contracts, a fact that has contributed to the sense of directionlessness. In particular, Orioles fans must wonder whether Duquette, if he will not be brought back in 2019, should be kept on board this summer to oversee the June amateur draft, in which the Orioles hold the 11th overall pick, as well as a potentially franchise-altering rebuild at the trade deadline. On Tuesday during batting practice, Showalter, in his uniform, and Duquette, in a business suit, chatted near the batting cage, while Anderson, in workout clothes, leaned on the cage and watched the Orioles’ hitters take their cuts. Neither Duquette nor Anderson stopped to take questions from the media. Another day came and went, and another loss was pinned to the Orioles, without any hint that anything was going to change anytime soon. “We’re grinding every day — everybody, the players especially,” Showalter said after Tuesday night’s loss. “And I’ve got confidence that we’ve got good people and it will turn at some point. Maybe tomorrow.” But tomorrow carries no promises. And even after Tuesday night’s abject misery, which must have felt like some sort of new low point, the Orioles couldn’t be certain there wasn’t still another level to which to sink. Read more: Mets trade Matt Harvey to Reds for catcher Devin Mesoraco White Sox’ Danny Farquhar discharged from hospital, may pitch again after this season Nationals are wise to be playing it safe with their stars Cardinals catcher has emergency surgery after foul ball struck him in the groin