Tessa Jowell, a former British culture secretary who played a key role in securing the 2012 London Olympics and used her own cancer diagnosis to campaign for better treatment, died May 12 at her home in the British county of Warwickshire. She was 70. Her family announced the death in a statement. Ms. Jowell was diagnosed with a brain tumor last year. A member of the House of Lords, she used her platform to deliver a memorable speech calling for improved information-sharing and better access to care that moved her fellow peers to tears. “In the end, what gives a life meaning is not only how it is lived, but how it draws to a close,” she said in January, with a shawl around her shoulders and her head covered by a skullcap. “I hope that this debate will give hope to other cancer patients, like me, so we can live well together with cancer — not just dying of it. All of us — for longer.” As a government minister and member of the House of Commons with the Labour Party, Ms. Jowell championed programs such as Sure Start, an initiative to improve child care. But it was her work on the Olympics that made her known to the general public. Having pushed the British government to bid for the Olympics, her joy on securing the Games was short-lived. The following day — July 7, 2005 — four suicide bombers targeted the London transport network, killing 52 people and injuring hundreds more. On the 10th anniversary of the attacks, Ms. Jowell told those attending a memorial service that her memories of the day were vivid. “I will certainly never forget it — neither the day itself nor the days afterwards. I was in Singapore. We were celebrating having won the Olympic bid when my private secretary received a call from London to be told that there might have been a terrorist attack on the Tube network. “As the full scale of the atrocity became clear, those of us representing the U.K. in Singapore could think about just one thing. We had to get home.” Then-Prime Minister Tony Blair asked Ms. Jowell to coordinate the government’s support for survivors and the bereaved. She later said she often thought about July 7, but particularly during the two-minute silence at the London Games’ Opening Ceremonies. “I saw the forward-looking, expansive, optimistic vision of Britain that the opening ceremony represented and I thought again that this was something the bombers and their supporters would have hated — all those nations, with their different views, their different cultures, their different traditions, coming together in a spirit of peace and play,” she said. “So it was a deeply civilized thing that we did in those marvelous two weeks in the summer of 2012.” Tessa Jane Helen Douglas Palmer was born in London on Sept. 17, 1947, and raised in Aberdeen, Scotland. Her father was a physician, and her mother was a radiologist. Ms. Jowell, whose first marriage to Roger Jowell ended in divorce, worked initially as a social worker. She was elected to the House of Commons in 1992, representing the Dulwich area of London, and held office until 2015. She became a staunch ally of Blair and was secretary of state for culture, media and sport from 2001 to 2007. Ms. Jowell was sometimes enmeshed in controversy over the business dealings of her husband, tax lawyer David Mills. In 2009, he was sentenced to 4½ years in prison .by an Italian court for taking a bribe from former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi in exchange for false testimony at corruption trials. The conviction was eventually overturned because of what an Italian appeals court described as a technicality. She was appointed dame commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2012, and entered the House of Lords in 2015. In addition to her husband, survivors include two children. Read more  Washington Post obituaries  Stanley Falkow, microbiologist who studied bacteria and the diseases they cause, dies at 84 Doreen Simmons, British-born authority on sumo wrestling, dies at 85 Eugene Hughes, who led boxing academy for young Washingtonians, dies at 80