 11 p.m. update: The storm that dropped quarter-size hail in Alexandria, Mt. Vernon and Springfield is moving east away from the southern suburbs and weakening as it does so. That cluster will continue to produce torrential rain, small hail and frequent lightning as it moves through southern Prince George’s, Calvert and southern Ann Arundel. Meanwhile, relatively light showers are moving through the far northern suburbs. Thunder and lightning will be possible through the night but we aren’t expecting widespread severe storms. We’ve moved previous updates below the forecast. Original post from 5:17 p.m. How was your Sunday weather? Well, it depended on which side of the cold front you were on. Under mostly sunny skies, temperatures jumped into the mid- to upper 80s in central Virginia. Closer to D.C., afternoon temperatures fell from the low 70s to 60 to 65 degrees. In the places where the sun popped out west and south of the District, there is a chance of some intense thunderstorms later this evening. A few of these storms could produce damaging winds and hail, prompting a severe thunderstorm watch through 11 p.m. See the map below:  But, for most of us, cool and cloudy conditions will continue to be the narrative, perhaps interrupted by a shower or less-intense storm. Listen to the latest forecast:  Get our daily forecasts on your Amazon Alexa device. Click here to find out how. Through tonight: Overcast conditions will continue within about a one-county radius of the District and to the north. We’re anticipating an area of isolated showers and storms to show up on radar through about 6 or 7 p.m. Some of these storms could become severe in locations where the sun has been out for several hours. Otherwise, expect some showers to move through the D.C. area after 6 p.m., ending before midnight. Cloudy overnight with temperatures around 60 degrees. Some patchy fog is likely to develop just before daybreak. View the current weather conditions at The Washington Post. Tomorrow (Monday): Overcast and cool with some areas of patchy fog hanging around through midmorning. We will need to watch how far north the previously stalled-out cold front wants to move tomorrow, as where it ends up will make a huge difference in the  weather we can expect. It appears that the front may move just north of D.C., causing temperatures to jump into the low to mid-80s tomorrow with dew points in the mid-60s. And that warm and humid air mass could increase our chances of seeing some afternoon thunderstorms. However, this forecast is highly uncertain, even less than 24 hours out. Should the front not make it to D.C., we would remain mostly cloudy with highs in the upper 60s to low 70s. See Brian Jackson’s forecast through the week. And if you haven’t already, join us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter and Instagram. For related traffic news, check out Gridlock. Rainfall totals: The map below is a bit “noisy,” so feel free to use this map for a more clear picture of how much rain fell last night and early this morning. The District and its surrounding suburbs generally ended up with 0.25 to 0.50 inches of rain. The real jackpot for rainfall amounts came with some of the strong storm cells that rolled through Baltimore and St Mary’s County. Radar returns indicate that 1.5 to 2 inches of rain fell from those cells. Want our 5 a.m. forecast delivered to your email inbox? Subscribe here. Evening thunderstorm updates 10:31 p.m. update: We’ve confirmed quarter-size hail near Springfield.  10:17 p.m. update: A severe thunderstorm warning has been issued for suburbs south of the D.C. metro (they included Alexandra, too). This storm could produce some quarter-size hail and gusty winds, but the main threat is torrential rain and lightning. The largest hail we’ve seen reported is pea-size. The warning expires at 11 p.m. A few storms have been bubbling up even after the severe thunderstorm watch was taken down. This one happened to strengthen rapidly as it crossed over the Potomac River. We’re not expecting widespread severe thunderstorms tonight, but don’t be surprised if you wake up to some thunder and lightning. 