BALTIMORE —  The Virginia and Loyola (Md.) men’s lacrosse teams were moments from the opening faceoff of their first-round game in the NCAA tournament Saturday night when lightning strikes were reported in the area. A weather delay of more than two hours ensued at Ridley Athletic Complex, including torrential downpours. Circumstances continued to deteriorate for the Cavaliers when the game finally commenced, leaving Virginia on the short end of a 14-12 result that was close only because of cosmetic goals in the final minute. The sixth-seeded Greyhounds opened a seven-goal lead in the second quarter and were never seriously threatened in the second half. Loyola advanced to next weekend’s quarterfinals in Hempstead, N.Y. “Give the entire Loyola lacrosse program credit. They played at a higher level than we did, especially in that first half,” said Virginia Coach Lars Tiffany. “They played with such good energy to build the lead as they did, 10-3, and score so many goals in the first half.” Having earned an at-large bid for its first NCAA tournament appearance since 2015, Virginia (12-6) didn’t come closer than four goals in the fourth quarter until 28 seconds remained in a particularly frustrating outing for leading scorer Michael Kraus, who entered with 43 goals. The sophomore attackman scored once on five shots. He came in on a scoring binge with 18 goals in his previous six games. Midfielder Dox Aitken had four goals to lead Virginia, which has lost four consecutive NCAA tournament games. Its last NCAA tournament victory came in 2012 over Princeton, 6-5, in the first round. The weather delay “definitely threw us off a little bit. We have a very strict pregame routine, and we were all ready to go,” said Aitken. “It was building up, and the national anthem played, and soon there was lightning. It was kind of a waiting game sitting in the locker room. Throws you off a little bit, but you can’t blame it on that. Loyola had to do it as well.” Virginia midfielder Matt Moore, the ACC freshman of the year, added two goals, as did freshman attackman Ian Laviano in front of what was left of an announced crowd of 2,407. Attackman Kevin Lindley led Loyola (13-3) with four goals, all in the first half, and three other players had two goals. “I’ve been involved in a lot of games, and the adversity both teams had to deal with tonight was pretty unique,” said Greyhounds Coach Charley Toomey. “I was just proud of the way our guys responded to that adversity. I thought that their energy was up when they stepped back onto the field [after the delay]. I thought we had a good week of practice. I thought we were very prepared with what we were going to see out there. The Cavaliers had beaten Loyola in five of the past six meetings. They had a glimmer of hope for an improbable comeback when they got within 13-9 with 9:42 left in the fourth quarter thanks to three straight goals, including two from Aitken. Midfielder John Duffy answered for Loyola with 8:43 to play, but the Cavaliers had a prime scoring opportunity 30 seconds later when two Greyhounds players were assessed penalties during a scrum in front of the Virginia crease. Regan Quinn attempted a shot from 15 yards with Virginia two men up, but Greyhounds goalkeeper Jacob Stover (seven saves) dropped to his knees to make the save. The Patriot League goalie of the year rolled out to his right, dodged an attackman trying to force a turnover and cleared the ball to help Loyola kill off both penalties. Five players combined for six goals for the Greyhounds during the first 8:55 of the second quarter on the way to a 10-3 advantage. Junior attackman Pat Spencer’s second goal came during that flurry for an 8-3 lead and moved him into a tie for most points in a single season in school history. He also amassed 89 points in 2016, as did Gary Hanley in 1981. Early in the second quarter, Spence set the Loyola and Patriot League single-season records for assists (56) with a pass to Lindley, who buried the shot with 13:47 to go until halftime. The previous meeting between the teams in this year’s regular season opener ended with the Cavaliers winning in double overtime, 13-12, thanks to a goal from Aitken. The midfielder collected a groundball on the faceoff, slipped by two defenders and scored 15 seconds into the second overtime to secure the résumé-fortifying triumph at Klockner Stadium. Three months later, the Cavaliers were on their heels throughout the majority of the rematch after leading briefly in the first quarter. But Loyola countered by reeling off three goals over 45 seconds, two of which came within seconds of faceoff wins. All of the Greyhounds’ goals in that stretch were unassisted. Midfielder Mike Orefice put Loyola in front to stay at 3-2 with 6:10 left in the first quarter by going high on freshman goalie Alex Rode, and Spencer scored his first goal of the game 33 seconds later in the early stages of what would become an offensive onslaught in the first half.