JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. — In a historic move, Missouri lawmakers announced Thursday that they are calling themselves into a special session to consider impeaching Gov. Eric Greitens (R) following allegations of sexual misconduct and misuse of charity resources. Republican House and Senate leaders said they had gathered more than the constitutionally required signatures of three-fourths of the members of each chamber to summon themselves into a special session that will start at 6:30 p.m. on May 18 — just 30 minutes after the end of work in their regular session. It will mark the first time in Missouri history that lawmakers have called a special session. Extraordinary sessions typically are called by governors. “This was not a decision made lightly and certainly not without great deliberation and effort,” Missouri House Speaker Todd Richardson said. The petition calls upon lawmakers to consider the upcoming recommendations of the House investigatory committee on potential “disciplinary actions” against the first-term governor, which also could include lesser reprimands than impeachment. The petition was signed by 138 of the 161 House members and 29 of the 33 senators, Richardson said. According to the state Constitution, the special session can last no more than 30 days. If the House votes to impeach Greitens, which requires 82 votes, the Senate then would appoint a panel of seven judges to conduct a trial on whether to remove him from office. The legislative announcement about a special session came a day after a House investigatory committee released a report indicating that Greitens had misused a donor list from a veterans charity he founded to raise money for his 2016 gubernatorial campaign. The report included testimony from a former Greitens aide indicating the campaign also falsely identified the source of the donor list in a settlement with the Missouri Ethics Commission. It was the second stunning report from the House panel. Last month, it released a report with testimony from a woman alleging that Greitens had restrained, slapped, shoved, threatened and belittled her during sexual encounters in 2015. Greitens faces a May 14 trial in St. Louis on a felony invasion of privacy indictment stemming from his encounter with the woman. He is accused of taking and transmitting a partially nude and unauthorized photo of the woman while she was bound and blindfolded in the basement of his home. Greitens has acknowledged having a consensual affair but has denied criminal wrongdoing.