Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz, a candidate for Maryland governor, died early Thursday after experiencing cardiac arrest, officials said. The Democrat was 60 years old and had participated in a candidates’ forum in Prince George’s County hours earlier on Wednesday night. Baltimore County police said he died at the University of Maryland St. Joseph Medical Center. Police said in a statement that Kamenetz was sleeping at his home in Owings Mill, Md., and awoke around 2 a.m. He complained of feeling ill. He was taken to the hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 3:22 a.m. He is survived by his wife Jill and two teenaged sons, Karson and Dylan. Kamenetz, a longtime politician who served 16 years on the Baltimore County Council before being elected executive in 2010, was one of several Democrats vying to take on Gov. Larry Hogan (R) this fall. The primary is June 26. Hogan ordered Maryland flags lowered from Wednesday through sunset on the day of Kamenetz’s funeral and said he and first lady Yumi Hogan “extend our deepest condolences to his family and loved ones.” “He was a dedicated public servant in Baltimore County for more than two decades, and we join with the citizens of Baltimore County and all Marylanders in mourning,” Hogan said in a statement. Kamenetz was one of only three Democrats in the race with experience in elected office. He scored near the top of the crowded field in recent polls, behind Prince George’s County Executive Rushern L. Baker III and former NAACP chief Ben Jealous. Known as a blunt-spoken, hard-charging politician, he had clashed with Hogan repeatedly on issues from school funding to the environment. He had more campaign cash than any other Democrat at the start of this year, and was counting on a strong showing in Baltimore County — a key general-election battleground — to propel him in the primary. Kamenetz grew up in Baltimore County, the youngest of five children. He worked at the drugstore his father owned, and attended Johns Hopkins University and the University of Baltimore School of Law. He was a prosecutor in the Baltimore City state’s attorney’s office before joining the county council. He also served on the Democratic State Central Committee and as the president of the Maryland Association of Counties. The forum Wednesday evening at Bowie State University drew four of the Democratic hopefuls, including Kamenetz. He was lighthearted before he entered the building, joking with reporters about having seen them at a different forum the night before. In his opening statement, Kamenetz introduced himself as a “lifelong Marylander and a lifelong Democrat” and said he was “blessed with a loving wife of almost two decades, Jill and the father to two teenage sons.” He told the crowd that as county executive he has tried to focus on education, noting that the county built 90 schools during his tenure, had rising graduation rates, “and there is no disparity in graduation rates between black and white students.” “I have made education a priority,” said Kamenetz, who was a fierce critic of Hogan’s educational policies. “If we focus again on our educational system, that’s how we grow jobs.” Kamenetz touted Baltimore County’s economic development growth, record low crime rates and his record of never having raised the property tax rate. He said he and his running mate, former Montgomery County Council member Valerie Ervin, were “the most qualified ticket who can hit the ground running.” Kamenetz also had pledged to fight for Maryland workers, including a push for a statewide $15 minimum wage and an expansion of job-training programs. Politicians across the state offered their condolences early Thursday morning. “One of the unexpected joys of this campaign had been getting to know Kevin’s wonderful wit and humor,” tweeted state Sen. Richard S. Madaleno Jr. (D-Montgomery), another of the gubernatorial candidates. In a statement, Madaleno added: “Kevin’s story of growing up in Lochearn, working at his father’s drug store and ultimately rising to become Baltimore County Executive is a classic tale of Maryland grit and determination.” Baker cancelled his campaign schedule for Thursday and said in a statement, “Today is a tragic day in Maryland . . . I am stunned by this news as I had just watched hours earlier Kevin passionately and eloquently share his goals, vision, and ideas for the State of Maryland.” Jealous said Kamenetz had “dedicated his life to public service, to making a difference and he helped to move Maryland forward.” Candidate Jim Shea called Kamenetz’s death “a tremendous loss for Maryland.” Baltimore City Mayor Catherine Pugh (D) said she considered Kamenetz a “friend and colleague,” one who was an “ardent supporter of Baltimore City.” She said she admired him for his commitment to “pursuing the best interests of Baltimore County residents, even while advocating for all Marylanders in his pursuit for governor.”