Anthony Rendon didn’t want to admit his big toe was broken, though it made sense that it would be. Players don’t miss weeks from fouling a ball off themselves because of a bad bruise, and the Washington Nationals starting third baseman has missed three weeks. Rendon, cheerful after a 3-for-4 showing in his second rehab game with the Potomac Nationals in Woodbridge, Va., reluctantly admitted the fracture Friday night as he watched his teammates build a big lead over the Phillies on a TV in the clubhouse. “Yes, there was a fracture of some sort, but small obviously,” Rendon said. “That’s why it’s been taking so long.” [Reliever Shawn Kelley to start rehab assignment Saturday] He and the Nationals had been referring to the injury as a bruise, unwilling to admit the full extent of the trouble despite widespread speculation that something else was going on with the still black-and-blue big toe on his left foot. But as headline worthy as the word “fracture” can sound, the more important takeaway from Friday night was that Rendon expects to be back with the Nationals on Saturday, Sunday latest, after two rehab games with the P-Nats in which he went 5-for-8 and played seven innings at third base. “They said I’m going to feel it for another five or six weeks after the injury, so obviously it’s still going to be there, but we play with aches and pains throughout the year,” Rendon said. “I was just trying to get it where it’s tolerable and I’m not really compensating around it.” Rendon looked confident in his legs while swinging the bat, and doubled once and singled twice in four at-bats Friday night. He looked uninhibited in the field, though he did throw a ball wide on a difficult slow roller. [Boswell: For Nats, hidden gems spark a rally — and a rallying cry] His recent injury was most obvious on the bases, where he looked to be running freely but with visible caution. Both singles were to the gap in left center, and likely would have been doubles had he been playing in a major league game and not exercising the same caution. He rounded first base carefully both times so as not to stop too hard. Earlier in the day, Nationals Manager Dave Martinez said if all went well Friday night, the Nationals would probably activate Rendon on Saturday. Rendon was slightly less certain because he has not played a day game after a night game yet, and was not sure how his toe would feel on a quick turnaround. Things went as well Friday night as could be expected, which means — batting the unexpected — Rendon will play for the Nationals this weekend. Though they did not seem to miss him as they piled up runs on the Phillies, then the Pirates, this week, the 2017 MVP candidate will change the dynamic of their lineup entirely — and almost certainly for the better. “He’s very important to our team, and he’ll be a good mix in the middle of our lineup,” Martinez said. “ … but like I said, we want to make sure we get him back and he’s fully ready, ready to go.” Keith Pyne, one of the more tenured members of the Nationals’ medical staff, rigged up a protective brace for Rendon’s toe that he will wear while hitting for the foreseeable future. He already wore a personalized shin and foot guard, but now is wearing a giant pad on his big toe that he admits “feels weird,” but doesn’t prevent him from running normally. When it comes to returning to play with a broken toe, he and the Nationals feel they can’t be too careful. Read more: What can the Nationals do to fix Ryan Zimmerman? How Nationals hitting coach Kevin Long helped Bryce Harper snap out of slump D.C. Sports Bog: These seven community projects will be MLB All-Star Game’s D.C. legacy D.C. Sports Bog: Max Scherzer and the Nats remain all-in on the Caps