Crosbie “Butch” Saint, a four-star Army general who retired in 1992 as the commanding general of the U.S. Army Europe, a post he held for four years at the end of the Cold War, died May 7 at a medical center in Bethesda, Md. He was 81. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Merrilyn Saint. During his more than 30-year military career, Gen. Saint commanded armor units and served two combat tours in Vietnam. He also served five tours in Europe, including as a lieutenant on border duty while the Berlin Wall was built and as commander when it fell. He also was the commanding general of the 1st Armored Division and the III Corps in Fort Hood, Tex. Crosbie Edgerton Saint was born on Sept. 29, 1936, at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, N.Y., where his father was an instructor. His father died as a Japanese prisoner of war during World War II. After graduating from an episcopal high school in Asheville, N.C., Gen. Saint graduated from West Point in 1958. His honors included the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, the Silver Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross and the multiple awards of the Legion of Merit. Gen. Saint, a resident of Philomont, Va., was vice president for international operations at Military Professional Resources, a military contractor organization, from 1993 to 2005. He was also a past president of the West Point Society of D.C. and spent his retirement raising and boarding horses at his farm in Philomont. His first marriage, to Virginia Carnahan, ended in divorce. In addition to his wife of five years, the former Merrilyn Crosgrove, survivors include two children from his first marriage, Mary Saint Dumlao of The Woodlands, Tex., and Fred Saint of Atlanta; a half sister; a half brother; and five grandchildren. Read more  Washington Post obituaries Margot Kidder, who played Lois Lane in blockbuster ‘Superman,’ dies at 69 Ernest Medina, company commander acquitted in My Lai Massacre, dies at 81 Davida Coady, physician who treated refugees and helped eradicate smallpox in India, dies at 80