Everyone, those qualified and unqualified, those inside the Nationals organization and out, has an answer for Ryan Zimmerman. Everyone thinks they know what is wrong with the struggling first baseman. He should have played more in spring training. He should be platooning with Matt Adams. He just isn’t the same. His general manager and manager have the same answer. They say Zimmerman will be fine. He’s streaky, always has been. His hitting coach Kevin Long goes a step further. He wants Zimmerman to keep doing what he’s doing — exactly what he’s doing. “My thought is is we continue to stay positive, continue to work,” Long said. “continue to do what he’s doing and he’ll turn around.” When asked about Zimmerman’s slump, Long immediately rattled off the following statistics. Zimmerman’s average exit velocity (95.9 miles per hour) is higher than it has ever been. His launch angle (9.3 degrees) is two degrees higher than it was during his all-star season last year. He is chasing fewer pitches out of the zone (29.5 percent of them) than last year (31.1 percent). Long said Zimmerman thinks he’s hitting more ground balls than ever, but he is actually hitting fewer. His groundball rate (43 percent of contact) is down three percent from last season. “He’s got 15 hard-hit outs. Last year, he had 41,” Long said. “So in one-sixth of the season, if he continues to do that, that would be 90. That’s way too many. All the data supports that he’s doing everything he did last year. We just have to keep his mind clear.” Dave Martinez gave Zimmerman a day off Wednesday after he endured a 3 for 21 stretch. He is back in the lineup Thursday, batting fourth behind Adams, who is hitting right-handed pitching so well that continued struggles from Zimmerman could force Martinez into a modified platoon, though neither he nor anyone in the front office has floated the idea. For Long, Zimmerman’s return to form is a question of luck, and the 33-year-old’s batting average on balls in play is nearly 50 points lower than his career low. That discrepancy suggests bad luck. But bad luck can create more bad luck by giving false feedback to a hitter doing things right, and Long is trying to help Zimmerman avoid a downward spiral. “When you have good games and you don’t get hits, then you have another good game and you don’t get hits, then you a good game and you don’t get hits, then you have one bad game, it magnifies,” Long said. “I think that’s what’s happening.” WASHINGTON NATIONALS (15-16) Bryce Harper RF Trea Turner SS Matt Adams LF Ryan Zimmerman 1B Howie Kendrick 2B Michael A. Taylor CF Matt Wieters C Jeremy Hellickson P Wilmer Difo 3B PITTSBURGH PIRATES (17-14) Adam Frazier 2B Gregory Polanco RF Starling Marte CF David Freese 1B Corey Dickerson LF Elias Diaz C Colin Moran 3B Sean Rodriguez SS Trevor Williams P 